Notable Info from 01/09/2016
Chapter 1: Calcination
In game time: 2 Months and 9 days
current season: the edge of Mid Winter, Year 231 Of The New Rite
Started in Garlo at Lord Dunden's Manor ended with Farson in the well under Dunden’s Manor, Lord Duvai’in on the highway from Garlo to Rhea, and Rodrick at Tara’s house near the edge of Garlo.
Recap: 
The night started with Duvai’in waiting nervously in his room for Ma’lo. There, he failed the temptation to drink and became slightly buzzed. Ma’lo visited him after this with Farson sneaking close behind. 
Ma’lo discussed with Duvai’in the basic principles of magic and how it either borrows or pushes matter and energy from one plane of existence to another. He told Duvai’in that his “shadow abilities” didn’t honor these principles and that they were unnatural and not magic at all. With this he warned him not to use his abilities while being at the manor. 
Later that night, Duvai’in was also visited by Tara, who informed him that she knew he was the real Duvai’in. She remembered seeing a news poster with his face on it during a vacation with her father to Graycott several years ago. She insisted it was wrong to let everyone believe that Farson was the real Duvai’in. Duvai’in attempted to charm Tara with his charisma and suffered another failure for the night. 
Meanwhile, Rodrick Sarrol, the good friend of Meko McGregor was battling exhaustion on the road from Rhea to Garlo. He had been pushing himself and his steed as hard as possible so that he could arrive at Dunden’s Manor to inform them of some grave news. 
Two months ago he went back to the Bearded Monk Tavern when Meko decided someone should return to the scene and make sure things had stabilized. When Rodrick arrived he found to his dismay that the tavern maiden had informed a group of Sentinels of the events that took place, and the description of him, his friends, and the victims they had rescued.
By his estimate a small unit of around twenty sentinels were marching towards Dunden’s manor. Although he knew he could win the race back with some time to spare, the bitter cold convinced him to take a short detour for a new mantle. After some haggling with a shifty merchant he acquired a suboptimal fur cloak, but with the addition of his old cloak it was sufficient armor against the winter air.
Back at the manor, the the real Duvai’in enjoyed some breakfast with Meko who was impressed by the firearm he had found on Duvai’in during the rescue two months ago. He insisted the weapon was of good quality but not quite as good as a flintlock from his homeland Agathe. However, Meko informed Duvai’in that Dunden would employ him because of his proficiency with the weapon. 
Farson learned that the houses of nobles contained dangers far different than what he was used to; Between the ineptitude of servants, the incessant time it took to find people in the many rooms and corridors, and also the advances of a women with slightly too large of teeth, the rogue was finding out the title of Lord was a little more than he bargained for. He did manage to “acquire” some tomes on magic and demons as well as some recipes for poison. Farson also found some work right up his alley when Ma’lo asked him to “obtain” a body with no signs of physical injuries, but it had to be exceptionally fresh.
When Rodrick finally arrived and the bad news was shared a bit of unorganized chaos broke out as the house tried to find lord Dunden. He was located in a servant’s quarters indulging in a couple different pleasures. Dunden was too far inebriated to decide what to do so the leadership role fell on Farson’s shoulders. Meko left to gather help in the nearby town and although Rodrick was tasked with evacuating the servants he decided sleeping was more important.
Ma’lo handed out some volatile tinctures to help with the defense of the mansion. Duvai’in used his familiar to find out the sentinels were actually much closer than originally thought and quickly after this Ma’lo seemed to become unhinged and didn’t respond to much. Tara was awoken in the basement and informed everyone of a secret passage behind her that could be used to escaped if things went south. After that the time leading up to nightfall was chaotic and mostly wasted. Ma’lo was seen dumping many vials of a coagulate into the well and then disappeared for a while after that. Everyone tried to sleep but awoke with a bloodcurdling scream. 
The scream, which later was found to be Ma’lo’s, finally alerted the servants and guards to the incoming situation. Ma’lo was found in the gallery with his eyes chemically burned and his sight forever taken. He seemed to have done this on purpose and now possessed some sort of far maybe even future sight. 
At this point motivation to prepare the Mansion for a last stand began. Traps were laid and mistakes were made. In the end the worst casualty was taken from a misstep by a young alchemist. 
After the mishap, a reorganizing of the traps and the discussion of tactics, everyone waited silently in the basement for the encroaching doom. Farson took the chance to remove an annoyance he had; Convincing Dunden to continue drinking until he blacked out, Farson then poured alcohol down the man's throat ensuring his death. No one noticed this except the blinded Ma’lo who seemed to even encourage it. Farson then looted the now dead lord and found a sealed letter that he put in his pocket for later.
Meko never arrived with reinforcements but the sentinels seemed to at least be delayed. When they finally came the traps proved most successful and with the additional help from the “hand of god”, that inspired the guards to sacrifice their lives, the battle seemed to be going favorably. Rodrick, Farson and Duvai’in pushed back the waves of sentinels and moved up the stairs into a corridor next to the main kitchen. Duvai’in, ignoring the warnings he had received from Ma’lo, used his  magic like abilities to further push the advantage. 
Agonizing screams came from Ma’lo in the basement and soon after the battle turned. Ma’lo grabbed Duvai’in’s throat from behind and bashed his head into the wall several times before throwing his body down the stairs. Then Ma’lo walked to the second floor and wasn’t seen from again until after the battle. The sentinels had seemingly pulled out but the now bruised Duvai’in soon found out they had just found a better route. 
Tara banged on the secret passage door to be let into the basement and with the help of Rodrick Duvai’in managed to force open the secret door just in time to save Tara from ten sentinels rushing down the corridor. They slammed the door shut but it was soon splintered open. Tara ran terrified upstairs. Farson using the very last chemical bomb given to him by Ma’lo saw an opportunity to end the struggle. With zero regards to Duvai’in or Rodrick he tossed the bomb into the corner of the basement. Rodrick managed to move fast enough to get to safety but Duvai’in fell unconscious, and burned, lain at death’s door. 
The volley was also successful in killing six of the ten sentinels. Rodrick and Duvai’in then decided to retreat and they moved back to the first floor only to find a now pale white Tara who informed them an entire army of sentinels sat just outside the mansion. With no other option they returned to the basement to use the passage as either a choke point or a means to escape. They found that Duvai’in had been taken by the sentinels. 
They continued down the passage with a frightened Tara clinging to Duvai’in. When they came to a split in the passage Tara said left would lead them to the center of Garlo’s market and the right would double back and come under the cliff of Dunden’s manor. Rodrick feeling honor bound took the right passage; Farson and Tara took the left. 
The left passage ended in an extremely heavy door that took a considerable amount of time for Farson to open with the assistance of his crowbar. The thought of kicking the crowbar and leaving Tara behind crossed his mind but just then a small dagger pierced his arm and the crowbar was removed. Just as the door slammed shut Tara smiled and Farson saw Ma’los white eyes in hers. He spoke and said “Stale Autumn… You have six days.”
Farson immediately headed into town to find a cure to the poison and after a day or so he knew he would have to return to the manor for the use of the alchemy lab. 
Meanwhile Rodrick had watched the sentinels carry out a massive crate from the manor and then leave. He returned to the mansion and soon was joined by a blood covered Meko; Not one drop of blood however was his own. Rodrick filled Meko in on what had happened and Meko told him how he had infiltrated the ranks of the sentinels with a caravan of beer and managed to kill several, slowing them down. Then they both found Dunden’s body in the basement and they attempted to find Ma’lo but couldn't. 
After a quick rest in the bath Rodrick found the servants had returned and even cleaned most of the mess up from the battle. He also discovered a very much alive lord Dunden. He then decided to find out if Tara was safe and set out to find her father's house somewhere on the edge of Garlo.
When Farson returned to the manor he found it almost perfectly back in order and also to his dismay a healthy and even sober Dunden. Dunden managed to waste some of Farson’s precious time although this reminded Farson of the letter he had found in Dunden’s pocket. Reading it he discovered plans for a combustible engine and that he Dunden had planned to give “Duvai’in” ten million trinks and these plans as part of a bet he had to settle with Duvai’in’s father.
Then Farson attempted to brew the cure for his affliction but discovered he needed a very strong coagulant to successfully make the remedy. Remembering Ma’lo had dumped many vials of it down into the well he readied his trusty fifty feet of rope and descended into the well only to discover a massive cave under it with a stream that fed the well. As he prepare to go deeper into the cave. Dunden’s face appeared above as he cut the rope and laughed maniacally. Farson once again saw the blind eyes of Ma’lo’s replace Dundens.
During these events the real Duvai’in awoke to find himself barely able to move and in the back of a cart transporting a mysterious crate and a slightly depressing driver back to Rhea.