 Times New Roman; Times New Roman; MS Mincho; Cambria Math; Riched20 6.3.9600 Shadowcaster Alignment: Any Hit Die: d6. BAB: Low Good Saves: Fort and Will Class Skills : Craft (Int); Fly (Dex); Intimidate (Cha); Knowledge (Any) (Int); Linguistics (Int); Perception (Wis); Profession (Wis); Spellcraft (Int); and Stealth (Dex). Skill Points per Level : 2 plus Intelligence modifier Weapons and Armor Proficiency: Shadowcasters are proficient with simple weapons and with light armor. They are not proficient with medium armor, heavy armor, or shields of any type. Armor does interfere with the somatic gestures required to cast mysteries as spells, so there is a chance of arcane spell failure when the shadowcaster wears armor. Mysteries invoked as spell-like or supernatural abilities are not subject to arcane spell failure when cast by a shadowcaster. Fundamentals of Shadow (Su) : A shadowcaster masters certain basic powers before proceeding to deeper secrets of shadow. These powers known as fundamentals of shadow (see below for a list of the different fundamentals) function as supernatural abilities and can be used at will. Initially, a shadowcaster begins play with knowledge of three fundamentals of her choice. At 2nd level, and every even shadowcaster level gained thereafter she may learn an additional fundamental until all nine have been learned at 12th level. The save DC for a fundamental if any is equal to 1 2 + the shadowcaster s Intelligence modifier. Mysteries and Paths: A shadowcaster does not cast spells as other classes do, but instead invokes mystical secrets called mysteries. Rather than learning a single mystery at a time, a shadowcaster learns them in a triad of powers known as a path. Whenever a shadowcaster learns a new path, she learns all three mysteries on that path, even those whose level is greater than she is able to invoke. As a shadowcaster gains experience, she becomes able to access these higher level mysteries. (Charisma must ? 11 + Level of Mystery) Paths are divided into three categories, each one representing a new tier of shadow-magic. Apprentice level paths contain mysteries of 1st through 3rd level, and are available to a starting shadowcaster. Initiate level paths contain mysteries of 4th through 6th level and become available when a shadowcaster reaches 7th level. Master level paths contain mysteries of 7th through 9th level, and are only available to shadowcasters who have achieved at least 13th level in this class. At 1st level, a shadowcaster may select two Apprentice level paths to add to her repertoire. At 3rd level, and every two shadowcaster levels gained thereafter, she may select one additional path of her choice. She may freely choose between any path for her selection, so long as she possesses high enough a class level as a shadowcaster to qualify for the chosen path. At no time may a shadowcaster ever know more Initiate level paths than she knows Apprentice level paths. Nor may she ever know more Master level paths than she knows Initiate level paths. Mysteries represent thought patterns and formulae so alien that other spells seem to pale in comparison. As a shadowcaster progresses, however, your connection to the Plane of Shadow grows stronger, and her mysteries become more ingrained in her essence. When she is capable of casting only apprentice level mysteries, she invokes them as though they were arcane spells. They all have somatic components, armor-based spell failure chance, and are subject to interruption (but they do not require material components, foci, or verbal components). Whenever she casts a mystery as an arcane spell, observers can make a DC 15 Spot check to note that her shadow is making different gestures from the ones she makes when casting the mystery. At 7th level, when a shadowcaster becomes capable of casting initiate level mysteries, her apprentice level mysteries have become so much a part of her that they now function as spell-like abilities, and they no longer require somatic components. Her new initiate level mysteries are now invoked as arcane spells as described above. When a shadowcaster reaches 13th level and become capable of invoking master level mysteries, another change occurs. A shadowcasters master level mysteries now functions as arcane spells, and her initiate level mysteries function as spell-like abilities. Her apprentice level mysteries become supernatural abilities at this level, and as such are no longer subject to spell resistance or hostile dispelling. Nor do they provoke attacks of opportunity when a shadowcaster invokes them. Mysteries and spells do not easily interact. Spell attempts to dispel mysteries (or vice versa) take a -4 penalty on all dispel checks. Mysteries can be identified with a Spellcraft check, but requires a different understanding of that skill (and likewise in reverse). A shadowcaster with no knowledge of standard magical workings (i.e. caster levels) and arcane or divine casters with no knowledge of shadowcasting take a -4 penalty on all Spellcraft checks to identify mysteries or spells, respectively. A shadowcaster can use each mystery that she knows a certain number of times per day, depending on whether the mystery is invoked as a spell/spell-like ability (twice per day), or a supernatural ability (three times per day). A shadowcaster does not prepare mysteries in advance of invoking them, but must still rest for 8 hours and meditate for 15 minutes each morning to refresh her invoked mysteries. In order to invoke a mystery, a shadowcaster must have an Charisma score of at least 11 + the level of the mystery. The save DC for a mystery cast by a shadowcaster is 11 + the level of the mystery + the shadowcaster ' s Charisma modifier. A shadowcaster's caster level is equal to her shadowcaster level. Bonus Feats : At 1st level, a shadowcaster gains a bonus feat from the following list: Favored Mystery, Greater Path Focus, Path Focus, Shadow Cast, and Still Mystery. She must meet all prerequisites listed in order to choose the feat. At 5th level, and every four levels gained as a shadowcaster thereafter, she may choose one additional bonus feat from this list. Umbral Sight (Su): Starting at 1st level, a shadowcaster s vision extends slightly into the Plane of Shadow. She retains the ability to see perfectly out to a distance of 60 feet (including color vision), regardless of the normal level of illumination or the presence of magical darkness. At both 11th and 19th level, the range of her umbral sight increases by an additional 30 feet. Deep Shadows (Ex): At 2nd level, a shadowcaster s power beckons to the shadows around her, causing them to warp and extend to cover her with their darkness. She gains a +2 competence bonus on all Stealth skill checks at any time she is not in direct sunlight or the radius of a daylight spell. At 8th level, and every six shadowcaster levels gained thereafter, this bonus increases by +2 to a maximum bonus of +8 at 20th level. Sustaining Shadow (Ex) : Upon reaching 4th level, a shadowcaster s bond to the Plane of Shadow allows her to absorb the dark energies found there, mitigating certain biological needs. She need eat only a single meal each week to maintain her health. At 10th level, she needs to sleep only 2 hours each night (although she can still only regain her spent mysteries once every twenty-four hours). At 15th level, she becomes immune to both poison and disease. Finally, at 20th level, she no longer needs to breathe, eat, drink, or sleep (but must still have 2 hours of rest to refresh her expended mysteries). Shadows of Cold (Ex): Beginning at 5th level, a shadowcaster becomes accustomed to the soul-numbing cold of the Plane of Shadow. She gains cold resistance 10. This cold resistance increases by 10 at both 10th and 14th level. At 18th level, she becomes immune to all cold damage. Shadowy Illumination (Ex): At 6th level, the connection between a shadowcaster and the powers of shadow begins to manifest around her person. Non-magical sources of illumination (other than direct sunlight) within 10 feet of the shadowcaster are weakened in her presence, reducing the level of illumination by one step (i.e. bright light becomes normal light, normal light becomes dim light, etc.) to the stage of dim light. Dim light cannot be reduced any further (to darkness). In addition to being reduced in illumination, the radius in which these light sources illuminate is also reduced by 5 feet. (For example, a torch that provides normal illumination in a 20-foot radius within 10 feet of a shadowcaster sheds dim light in a 15-foot radius instead). This ability is only under their control while they are completely composed, otherwise it is always in effect. At 7th level, and every three levels gained thereafter as a shadowcaster, the radius of her shadowy illumination increases by an additional 10 feet (to a maximum of 60 feet at 19th level). Starting at 10th level, non-magical sources of illumination within a shadowcaster's effective range have the area which they illuminate reduced by 10 feet rather than 5 feet and magical sources of illumination have their radius reduced by 5 feet. At 18th level, the power of this ability increases yet again, reducing the radius of illumination for non-magical sources of light by 15 feet and magical sources of light by 10 feet. Shadow Meld (Su): Starting at 12th level, a shadowcaster can meld with existing shadows. When in an area of dim light, the shadowcaster can, as a standard action, meld with existing shadows. While melded, the shadowcaster becomes invisible (as per the spell), incorporeal (as per the monster special quality), and emits no scent (and thus cannot be pinpointed by creatures with the scent special quality). Nor will the use of blindsense, blindsight, or tremorsense detect the shadowcaster while she is in this state. While shadow melded, a shadowcaster retains full awareness of her surroundings, including vision, hearing, and her sense of smell. Attempts to magically discern a shadowcaster s location while she is melded with the shadows are extremely difficult; even if the searcher is using spells such as see invisibility or true sight. The searcher must succeed on an opposed caster level check to spot the shadowcaster while she is in this state. If the square in which a shadowcaster is melded is illuminated by bright light (see levels of illumination in the Core Rulebook for examples), the meld immediately ends and she cannot use this ability again until one hour has passed. There is no duration limit on how long a shadowcaster can remain melded to shadow; however, while she is melded, she may take NO actions (not even free actions). This includes speaking, moving (including 5 -steps), activating a magic item, or casting a spell. If the shadowcaster takes any action, she is no longer melded with shadow and cannot use this ability again until one hour has passed. Master of Shadows (Ex): At 20th level, as a standard action, a shadowcaster may transform herself and her equipment into an incorporeal being of shadow. She may remain in shadowform for up to one minute for every shadowcaster level she has gained. This duration need not be used consecutively, but each use counts as one minute duration, regardless of the actual time spent in shadowform. While in shadowform, the shadowcaster gains a fly speed of 60 feet with perfect maneuverability. She gains a deflection bonus to her Armor Class equal to her Charisma modifier. She may freely cast spells at corporeal creatures with no miss chance due to her own shadowform. For all other aspects of her incorporeal state, see the incorporeal listing on page 295 of the PRD Monster Reference. Exclusive Shadowcaster Feats Favored Mystery Prerequisite: Ability to invoke mysteries. Benefit: Choose a mystery that you know and are able to invoke. You gain 1 additional daily use of that mystery. Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. It effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new mystery that you know and are able to cast. Greater Path Focus Prerequisite: Path Focus. Benefit: You gain a bonus of +1 to the Difficulty Class of all saving throws against mysteries from your chosen path. These bonuses stack with those granted by Path Focus. Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. It effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new path to which you have applied the Path Focus feat. Path Focus Benefit: You gain a bonus of +1 to the Difficulty Class of all saving throws against mysteries from your chosen path. Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. It effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new path. Shadow Cast Prerequisite: Ability to invoke mysteries. Benefit: Designate a square adjacent to you. If no one threatens that square, you do not provoke an attack of opportunity when you cast a spell or use a spell-like ability. Still Mystery Benefit: All of your mysteries are cast with no somatic components. This also prevents your shadow from making gestures that differ from your own during casting. Because mysteries activated as spell-like and supernatural abilities have no somatic components, this feat is useful only with mysteries cast as arcane spells. Mystery List Fundamentals of Shadow Arrow of Dusk School: Evocation Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) Effect: Ray Duration: Instantaneous Saving Throw: None Spell Resistance: No You must succeed on a ranged touch attack to deal 2d4 points of nonlethal damage to the target. If you score a critical hit, triple the damage. For every two shadowcaster levels beyond 1st, your arrow of dusk gains an additional 1d4 damage, to a maximum of 5d4 at 7th level or higher. Black Candle School: Evocation [Light or Darkness] Range: Touch Target: Object touched Duration: 1 round/level (D) Saving Throw: None Spell Resistance: No This fundamental functions like the spell light or the spell darkness. Only one of these two effects is possible per use, and you must decide which effect is desired when casting. Caul of Shadow School: Abjuration Range: Personal Target: You Duration: 1 minute/level (D) Caul of shadow faintly darkens your form, but does not provide any bonus on Stealth skill checks or similar efforts. You gain a +1 deflection bonus to AC, with an additional +1 for every five caster levels (maximum bonus +5). Liquid Night School: Conjuration (Creation) Range: Touch Effect: A small quantity of ink Duration: Instantaneous Saving Throw: None Spell Resistance: No You create a quantity of ink great enough for you to write approximately one page of text. It is not of sufficient quality to scribe spells. In darkness or shadowy illumination, the ink glows with red or yellow light that has the brightness of a candle. Water splashed on the ink causes it to wash away and cease glowing, but otherwise the ink continues to glow forever. Mystic Reflections School: Divination Range: Personal Target: You Duration: 1 round/level (D) Mystic reflections functions like the spells detect magic and read magic, except as noted above. You must choose one option, detecting or reading with each invocation. You can detect magic up to 30 feet away. Shadow Hood School: Evocation Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) Target: One creature Duration: 1 round/level (D) Saving Throw: Will negates Spell Resistance: No Swirling tendrils and bursts of mystic shadow distract the subject. It takes a -1 penalty on attack rolls, damage rolls, armor class, and all skill checks. Sight Obscured School: Illusion (Glamer) Range: Touch Target: Creature touched Duration: 1 round/level (D) Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) Spell Resistance: No This fundamental grants a +2 enhancement bonus on Disable Device, Stealth, and Sleight of Hand skills checks, or any other checks that involve concealing the subject s actions or gestures. Umbral Hand School: Transmutation Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) Target: One unattended object weighing up to 5 lb +5lb/level Duration: 1 round/level (D) Saving Throw: Will negates (object) Spell Resistance: No Umbral hand functions like the spell mage hand greater, except you can manipulate heavier objects and magic items even if they are attended. Attended objects are allowed a saving throw to negate the effect. You need not concentrate on the effect, but you must direct it with your thoughts once each round (a free action) or the effect ends. Apprentice Paths and Mysteries Cloak of Shadows Steel Shadows Level: 1st School: Abjuration Range: Personal Target: You Duration: 10 minutes/level (D) Steel shadows grants you a +3 armor bonus and a +3 shield bonus to AC, but without weight, armor check penalty, arcane spell failure, or speed reduction. The effect is not a force effect, and attacks from incorporeal creatures ignore it. Sight Eclipsed Level: 2nd School: Illusion (Glamer) Range: Personal Target: You Duration: 1 round/level (D) While this mystery is in effect, you can attempt Stealth checks even while being observed, just as if you had cover or concealment for the purpose of this determination. In addition, you gain a +4 competence bonus on all Stealth checks for the duration of the mystery. Sharp Shadows Level: 3rd School: Abjuration Range: Personal Target: You Duration: 1 minute/level (D) A creature striking you with its body or a handheld weapon takes 1d6 points of damage +1 point per caster level (maximum +15). A creature wielding a reach weapon is not subject to this damage if it attacks you. If the attacker has spell resistance, it applies to this effect (unless you invoke the mystery as a supernatural ability). Damage from sharp shadows is not considered magical for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction, and the effect is not considered a weapon for the purpose of spells such as align weapon or magic weapon. Dark Terrain Carpet of Shadow Level: 1st School: Conjuration (Creation) Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) Area: One 5-ft. square/level (S) Duration: 1 minute/level (D) Saving Throw: None Spell Resistance: No You cloak the ground with an uneven and hard to traverse surface. The terrain becomes difficult, meaning that each 5-foot square within the area costs double to move into. For instances, each light undergrowth square (normally costing 2 squares of movement to move into) now costs 4 squares of movement to move into. If you cast this mystery a second time on the same area (or a portion of the same area) while the first casting is still active, the second casting does not worsen the terrain further (although the duration of the effect on that area would be reset). Black Fire Level: 2nd School: Evocation (Cold) Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) Area: One 5-ft. square + 5 ft./level (S) Duration: 1 round/level Saving Throw: Reflex negates; see text Spell Resistance: Yes You create a shapeable shadowy curtain of black flame that covers the affected squares. The fire deals 2d5 points of cold damage per caster level (maximum of 6d5) to any creature standing in an affected square at the beginning of each of your turns until the effect ends. In addition, the flame deals damage to any creature entering or passing through an affected square (a separate saving throw is required for each square passed through). Black fire extends 15 feet up from the ground, so a creature can avoid the effect of the mystery by flying over the area. Clinging Darkness Level: 3rd Duration: 1 minute/level Saving Throw: Reflex negates; see text Spell Resistance: Yes Clinging darkness creates an area of darkness, as per the spell, except where noted above. A creature within the area affected by this mystery, or that enters the area on its turn, must make a Reflex save or become immobilized. Each round on its turn, an immobilized subject can attempt a new saving throw to end the condition. If an immobilized subject succeeds on its save, it still needs to save again at the start of its next turn in order to avoid succumbing to the darkness again, if it remains in the area of effect. Ebon Whispers Voice of Shadow Level: 1st This mystery functions like the spell command. A second function is a necromancy effect. Undead and constructs that fail their saving throws against this effect are dazed for 1 round. You do not have to choose which version to use. Congress of Shadows Level: 2nd School: Divination (Mind-Affecting) Range: 1 mile/level Target: One living creature you have physically met and been introduced to Duration: Instantaneous Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) You speak, and your words appear in the mind of a distant creature. The message can consist of up to five words, plus one additional word per caster level. It cannot deliver command words for magic items, or in any other respect function as anything but normal speech. The subject recognizes the identity of the sender of the message if it knows you. The creature can then reply, using the same number of words that you used. The message cannot cross planar boundaries. Flicker Level: 3rd School: Conjuration (Teleportation) Range: 30 ft. or self Target: You Duration: 1 minute (D) Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) Once per round, as an immediate action, you can instantly transfer a creature from their current location to any other spot within a distance of 5 feet per two caster levels. They always arrive at exactly the spot desired. Eyes of Darkness Bend Perspective Level: 1st School: Divination (Scrying) Range: Personal Target: You Duration: 1 minute/level (D) You view the world as though you were standing in a different spot, up to a maximum distance of 25 feet plus 5 feet per two caster levels. You cannot see through solid objects. You can, however, look around corners or over barriers; obtain a bird s-eye view of your area, and the like. Essentially, you shift your perspective as though you were located at any spot in range to which you have line of effect. You can switch back and forth between your own eyes and your alternate viewpoint as a swift action. You can move your alternate perspective, as in the spell arcane eye. Its speed is only 10 feet per round, however, and every round of such movement decreases the mystery s duration by 1 minute (if you move the perspective in the last minute of the duration, you gain a few seconds of vision at the new position before the effect expires). Piercing Sight Level: 2nd You can see invisible and ethereal creatures and objects as with the see invisibility spell. In addition, you gain darkvision out to 60 feet for the duration of the mystery. Killing Shadows Level: 3rd School: Transmutation Range: 30 ft. Effect: Cone Duration: Instantaneous Saving Throw: Will half Spell Resistance: Yes Creatures within a cone of killing shadows take 1d8 points of damage per caster level (maximum 10d8), or half that amount on a successful Will save. Shutters and Clouds Dawn to Dusk Level: 1st School: Evocation Range: Touch Target: Object touched Duration: 10 minute/level (D) Saving Throw: None Spell Resistance: None This spell functions as darkness, except that objects radiate darkness in a 60-foot radius and the light level is lowered by two steps. Bright light becomes dim light and normal light becomes darkness. Areas of dim light and darkness become supernaturally dark. This functions like darkness, but even creatures with darkvision cannot see within the spell's confines. This spell does not stack with itself. Dawn to Dusk can be used to counter or dispel any light spell of equal or lower spell level. Shadow Skin Level: 2nd School: Abjuration Range: Personal Target: You Duration: 1 round or less; see text You cast this mystery as an immediate action. You gain damage reduction according to your shadowcaster level: a shadowcaster of up to 4th level gains DR 5/magic; from 5th to 9th level, you gain DR 10/magic; from 10th to 14th level you gain DR 10/magic and silver; from 15th to 19th level you gain DR 15/magic and silver; at 20th level you gain DR 15/-. This DR lasts until the beginning of your next turn. Dancing Shadows Level: 3rd School: Illusion (Glamer) Range: Touch Target: One creature/5 levels Duration: 1 round/level (D) Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) You grant the subjects concealment. If you cast this mystery on a single subject, the shadows are thicker, and the subject gains total concealment. The spell see invisibility and the mystery piercing sight do not negate these miss chances, but the spell true seeing and the mystery truth revealed do. Touch of Twilight Life Fades Level: 1st School: Necromancy Range: Touch Target: Creature touched Duration: Instantaneous Saving Throw: Fortitude partial Spell Resistance: Yes Your touch deals 1d6 points of damage per caster level (maximum 5d6) and causes the subject to become fatigued for 1 round per caster level (a Fortitude save negates the fatigue). This mystery does not stack with itself, so a creature fatigued by one casting does not become exhausted by a second casting. Flesh Fails Level: 2nd School: Necromancy Range: Touch Target: Living creature touched Duration: Instantaneous Saving Throw: None Spell Resistance: Yes You deal either 4 points of Strength damage, 4 points of Dexterity damage, or 2 points of Constitution damage to the subject; you choose which kind of ability damage when you cast the mystery. Umbral Touch Level: 3rd School: Conjuration Range: Touch Target: Creature or creatures touched Duration: 1 minute/level (D); see text Saving Throw: Fortitude partial; see text Spell Resistance: Yes Umbral touch infuses one of your hands with dark, shadowy energy, allowing you to make debilitating melee touch attacks. A successful strike deals 6d6 points of damage to a target, which must succeed on a Fortitude saving throw or also be slowed. While this mystery is active, you threaten an area as if you were armed and can make attacks of opportunity with your umbral touch. This mystery completely occupies one of your hands, as if you were holding an object in that hand. If you have another open hand, you can cast other mysteries or spells normally, even those with a range of touch, but you cannot deliver another mystery or touch spell and make an attack with umbral touch in the same round. This effect normally lasts for 1 minute per level, but each successful touch attack shortens the duration by 1 minute (allowing you to make one successful attack per level before the effect is discharged). Umbral Mind Mesmerizing Shade Level: 1st School: Enchantment (Compulsion, Mind-Affecting) Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) Target: One living creature Duration: 1 round Saving Throw: Will partial Spell Resistance: Yes Shadow flickers around the subject, distracting and dazing him. The subject can avoid the daze effect with a successful Will saving throw, but still takes a -1 penalty on attack rolls, checks, and saves. Thoughts of Shadow Level: 2nd School: Transmutation Range: Touch Target: Creature touched Duration: 10 minutes/level (D) Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) You grant the subject a +4 enhancement bonus to Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma. You decide which ability you are enhancing when you cast the mystery, and you may not later alter your choice. Afraid of the Dark Level: 3rd School: Illusion (Mind-Affecting, Shadow) Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) Target: One living creature Duration: Instantaneous Saving Throw: Will half Spell Resistance: Yes You draw forth a twisted reflection of your foe from the Plane of Shadow. The image unerringly touches the subject, causing Wisdom damage equal to 1d6 points +1 point per four caster levels (maximum +5). A Will saving throw halves the Wisdom damage. Initiate Paths and Mysteries Black Magic Warp Spell Level: 4th School: Abjuration Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) Target: A spell or mystery cast by someone else Duration: Instantaneous Saving Throw: Will negates; see text Spell Resistance: No You can cast this mystery as an immediate action to warp another caster s spell or mystery. In this case, warp spell must be used at the moment of the other casting. To be successful, you must beat the other caster on an opposed caster level check (1d20 + caster level). If you do not, you have failed to take control of his spell or mystery, and it manifests normally. If you succeed on the opposed check, the other caster s mystery or spell is countered, as if you had used the counter-spell action successfully, and you gain one additional use of an apprentice level mystery that you know. You can keep this additional use until a later turn (requiring a standard action to activate), but it must be used within 1 hour or it is lost. You can also combine the activation of the additional spell or mystery with the immediate action required for the warp spell mystery, allowing you to cast the apprentice level mystery out of turn. Echo Spell Level: 5th School: Universal Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) Effect: Repeat a previously cast spell or mystery Duration: See text Saving Throw: See text Spell Resistance: See text You can echo a mystery or a spell cast by anyone other than yourself, causing it to remanifest under your control. Both the caster and the effect must have been within echo spell s range, and the entire casting must have occurred in the previous round. You can cast the mystery or the spell using your shadowcaster level level (use your Int modifier to determine the mystery or spell s DC, its duration, saves, and the like as normal for that mystery or spell). You cannot echo a mystery or spell of a higher level than the highest-level mystery you can cast, and you can never echo a mystery or a spell of higher than 4th level. Flood of Shadow Level: 6th School: Abjuration Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) Area: 20-ft.-radius spread Duration: 10 minutes/level (D) Saving Throw: None Spell Resistance: See text A flood of mystical shadow-power renders casting more difficult. To cast most spells while in, or cast spells into, an area affected by flood of shadow, the caster must succeed on a Spellcraft check (DC 15 + spell level), or the spell is lost with no effect. Mysteries or any spells of the shadow sub-school can be cast within or into the affected area without making the Spellcraft check. In addition, if a mystery or spell of the shadow sub-school originates in an area affected by flood of shadow, its variable numerical effect is increased by 50% (as if it was empowered), although its level does not increase. Body and Soul Bolster Level: 4th School: Transmutation Range: Touch Target: Creature touched Duration: 10 minutes/level or until discharged (D) Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) You grant the subject 5 temporary hit points for each its Hit Dice (maximum 75 temporary hit points). For the duration of the effect, the subject s shadow grows larger than normal, and its movements are very slightly uncoordinated with those of the subject. An observer can notice this characteristic by making a DC 20 Spot check. Languor Level: 5th Range: Close (25 feet + 5 ft./2 levels) Duration: 1 round/2 levels (D) Languor functions like either the spell slow or the spell hold monster, except as noted above. You choose which version you want before the effect begins. If you choose hold monster, the mystery can affect only one subject. Shadow Investiture Level: 6th School: Transmutation Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) Target: One creature Duration: 1 round/level (D) Saving Throw: Fortitude negates Spell Resistance: Yes You infuse the subject with the power contained in its own shadow. This grants the creature resistance to cold 15, the evasion ability, and darkvision 60 feet. Dark Reflections Shadow Evocation Level: 4th School: Illusion (Shadow) This mystery functions like the spell shadow evocation, except as noted above. In addition, this mystery can mimic an evocation spell of 4th level or lower (rather than 5th level or lower). Feign Life Level: 5th This mystery functions like the spell animate objects, but the items grow dark and warped, becoming more sharp edged and appearing slightly worn or decayed for the duration of the effect. The objects animated by this mystery also gain concealment. Shadow Evocation, Greater Level: 6th School: Illusion (Shadow) This mystery functions like the spell greater shadow evocation, except as noted above. In addition, this mystery can mimic an evocation spell of 6th level or lower (rather than 7th level or lower). Ebon Roads Step into Shadow Level: 4th This mystery functions like the spell dimension door. Pass into Shadow Level: 5th This mystery functions like the spell plane shift, except that your destination or origination must be the Plane of Shadow. Voyage into Shadow Level: 6th This mystery functions like the spell shadow walk, except as noted here. Your movement rate on the Plane of Shadow is double that described by the spell. Further, upon reaching your destination, you can attempt a DC 30 Knowledge (The Planes) check; success indicates that you appear exactly where you wish, rather than being shunted to a nearby space as per the spell. You need not leave the Plane of Shadow once you enter it, and this mystery can be used on the Plane of Shadow to travel rapidly. Elemental Shadows Aura of Shade Level: 4th School: Abjuration Range: Touch Target: Creature touched Duration: 1 round/level (D) Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) You protect the subject from low temperatures and cold energy with a thin layer of that energy s shadowy reflection. This grants the subject immunity to normal extremes of temperatures and absorbs cold damage from attacks and effects. When an aura of shade absorbs a total of 12 points of cold damage per caster level (maximum 240), it expires. For as long as the aura is active, the subject s weapon or natural weapon melee attacks deal an extra 1d6 points of cold damage. Dark Air or Water Level: 5th School: Transmutation This mystery functions like the spell control water or control winds. You decide which version to use at the time of casting. Shadow Storm Level: 6th School: Evocation (Electricity, Cold) Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) Targets: One primary target, plus one secondary target/level (each of which must be within 30 ft. of the primary target) Duration: Instantaneous Saving Throw: Reflex half Spell Resistance: Yes This mystery creates a blast of electricity and cold energy, much like some of the fearsome weather found on the Plane of Shadow. The storm strikes one target initially, and then arcs to other targets. The storm deals 1d6 points of damage per caster level (maximum 20d6). Half of this damage is electricity damage, and the other half is cold damage. After it strikes, the storm arcs (like the spell chain lightning) to a number of secondary targets equal to your caster level (maximum twenty). The secondary arcs each strike one target and deal half as much damage as the primary one did (round down). Unbinding Shade Shadows Fade Level: 4th This mystery functions like the spell dispel magic, except as noted above. Unravel Enchantments Level: 5th This mystery functions like the spell break enchantment, except as noted here. Shadows Fade, Greater Level: 6th This mystery functions like the spell greater dispel magic, except as noted above. Veil of Shadows Shadow Vision Level: 4th School: Transmutation Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) Target: One creature with an Intelligence of 3 or higher Duration: 1 round/level (D) Saving Throw: Will negates Spell Resistance: Yes You impede the subject s vision and its ability to determine what s happening around it. The subject takes a -4 penalty on attack rolls, ability checks, and skill checks. In addition, you have total concealment with respect to the subject (miss chance applies during each round of the duration). Curtain of Shadows Level: 5th School: Transmutation Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) Effect: Shadowy wall whose area is up to one 10-ft. square/level (S) Duration: 1 minute/level (D) Saving Throw: None Spell Resistance: No You create a wall of shadow that completely blocks line of sight. Any creature passing through the wall takes 1d6 points of cold damage per caster level (maximum 15d6). Unveil Level: 6th School: Divination Range: Touch Target: Creature touched Duration: Instantaneous Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) This mystery immediately ends any of the following adverse conditions: ability damage, blinded, confused, dazed, dazzled, deafened, diseased, exhausted, fatigued, immobilized, insanity, nauseated, sickened, stunned, and poisoned. In addition, it negates the effects of the mysteries mesmerizing shade, shadow hood, and shadow between, and cancels curses as the spell remove curse. Master Paths and Mysteries Breath of Twilight Life Fades, Greater Level: 7th School: Necromancy Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) Target: One living creature/level in a 20-ft.-radius spread Duration: Instantaneous Saving Throw: Fortitude partial Spell Resistance: Yes You deal 1d6 points of damage per shadowcaster level and cause the subjects to become exhausted for 1 round per shadowcaster level (a Fortitude save reduces the damage by half and decreases the exhaustion to fatigue). This mystery does not stack with itself, so a creature fatigued by saving against one invocation does not become exhausted by saving against a second invocation. Flesh Fails, Greater Level: 8th School: Necromancy Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) Target: One living creature/level in a 20-ft.-radius spread Duration: Instantaneous Saving Throw: None Spell Resistance: Yes This mystery functions like the mystery flesh fails, expect that you can affect multiple subjects, and you deal either 8 points of Strength damage, 8 points of Dexterity damage, or 4 points of Constitution damage. You must deal the same kind of ability damage to all subjects. Ephemeral Storm Level: 9th School: Evocation Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) Target: One living creature/2 levels, no two of which are more than 20 ft. apart Duration: Instantaneous Saving Throw: Fortitude partial Spell Resistance: Yes Targets of ephemeral storm must make a Fortitude save or die. Those who succeed take 5d6 points of damage. Dark Metamorphosis Ephemeral Image Level: 7th This mystery functions like the spell project image, expect as noted above. In addition, the image that you project has concealment unless it is in direct sunlight or within the area of a daylight spell or effect. Umbral Body Level: 8th School: Transmutation Range: Personal Target: You Duration: 1 round/level (D) You gain the incorporeal subtype and all advantages and traits associated with it. Shadow Time Level: 9th This mystery functions like the spell time stop. Ebon Walls Prison of Night Level: 7th School: Conjuration (Creation) Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) Target: One Huge or smaller creature Duration: 1 round/level (D) Saving Throw: Fortitude negates; see text Spell Resistance: Yes This mystery immobilizes the subject in a prison of shadow. This prison blocks both line of effect and line of sight to the creature inside it, and is impenetrable from the outside. The creature inside the prison takes 1d6 points of cold damage at the beginning of each round that it remains inside the prison. Once each round as a standard action, a creature caught in the prison can attempt a Fortitude saving throw against the spell s original DC to break out of the prison. Success means that the creature can move out of the prison, and it fade to nothingness. Failure means that the creature takes 1d4 points of Constitution damage and remains trapped. Tomb of Night Level: 8th This mystery functions like the mystery prison of night, except that instead of taking Constitution damage upon failing a Fortitude save to escape the prison, the creature gains one negative level. In addition, tomb of night deals 3d6 points of cold damage per round. Consume Essence Level: 9th School: Necromancy (Death) Range: Touch Target: One living creature Duration: Instantaneous, then 1 round/level (D); see text Saving Throw: Will negates Spell Resistance: Yes The target of this horrid mystery must succeed on a Will saving throw or die. If the creature succumbs to the mystery and dies, it immediately returns to life at full hit points, but any spells it has already used remain expended. The creature is under your direct mental control. Each round you may issue instructions to the creature as a free action and it will carry out those instructions to the best of its ability. The creature remains in this state for 1 round per level, and then dies again. Eyes of the Night Sky Truth Revealed Level: 7th This mystery functions like the spell true seeing. Far Sight Level: 8th This mystery functions like the spell greater scrying. Reflections of Things to Come Level: 9th School: Divination Range: Personal Target: You Duration: 10 minutes/level or until discharged This mystery grants you knowledge of what will occur (or at least what is likely to occur), granting you several benefits. You gain the uncanny dodge ability, a +10 insight bonus on initiative checks (you always get to act in a surprise round), and a +4 insight bonus to Armor Class. In addition, you can discharge the energy of this mystery as an immediate action to cause an attack to miss you that would otherwise have been successful. You can declare that you are using this ability after the result of the attack roll is known, but you must do so before damage is determined. Using this ability discharges and ends the mystery. You can also discharge the energy of this mystery as an immediate action to immediately convert a failed saving throw into a successful one. Using this ability discharges and ends the mystery. Heart and Soul Dark Soul Level: 7th School: Enchantment (Compulsion; Mind-Affecting) Range: Personal Target: You Duration: 1 round/level Saving Throw: Will negates; see text Spell Resistance: Yes; see text You turn the dark energies from the Plane of Shadow upon another creature, compelling it to act in ways that it normally would not. While this effect is active, you can use a standard action to focus the shadow energies on one living creature within 30 feet that you select. The creature must succeed on a Will saving throw (DC 18 + your Int modifier) or immediately make a melee attack against one target chosen by you within its reach. Soul Puppet Level: 8th School: Enchantment (Compulsion, Mind-Affecting) Range: Touch Target: One living creature touched Duration: 1 day/level (D) Saving Throw: Will negates Spell Resistance: Yes The control granted by soul puppet follows the same mechanics as the spell dominate monster. Anyone observing the subject with the spell true seeing, the mystery truth revealed, or a similar ability sees tendrils of darkness extending a few feet from the subject before fading into nothingness. Similarly, anyone who observes you while directing the subject notices tendrils extending from your fingers, also fading into nothing. Shadow Surge Level: 9th Range: Close: 25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels Target: Up to one living creature/level, no two of which are more than 30 ft. apart Duration: 1 round Saving Throw: Will negates Spell Resistance: Yes This mystery functions like the spell dominate monster, except as noted above. Shadow Calling Summon Umbral Servant Level: 7th This mystery functions like the spell summon monster I, except as noted here. You can summon a greater shadow elemental or 1d3 huge shadow elementals. Shadow elementals use the statistics as fire elementals, but deal cold damage instead of fire damage. Shadow Plague Level: 8th School: Conjuration (Creation; Cold) This mystery functions like the spell incendiary cloud, except that it deals cold damage rather than fire damage. Army of Shadow Level: 9th This mystery functions like the spell summon monster I, except as noted here. You can summon an elder shadow elemental or 1d3 greater shadow elementals. Shadow elementals use the statistics as fire elementals, but deal cold damage instead of fire damage.  