1
---
He awoke earlier than usual or at least that’s what he thought. He rolled over pushing the soft sheets that felt like they were woven by magic to the floor. It was cold and when he stroked the stubble on his face it felt like tiny ice ants biting at his fingertips. The sun was blocked by a tapestry on the far wall to the foot of his bed. Had the elegant purple and gold embroidery of a serpent not been there, he would have known that it was actually almost midday. It was the rumble of his stomach that first tipped him off that he may have slept in. He finally slipped his bare feet onto the cold wood floor. The shock of this brought his senses back to life like an old wife's nagging. He could faintly smell tarragon wafting from the kitchens below, or maybe it was licorice. He was never good at classifying herbs by their smell. 
His steps to the large oak door felt labored. How can someone like me, He thought. Who trudged through the muck and filth of Abnar, feel so powerless against the chains of sleep. The chains of sleep.
“Why did I think of chains?” He reached for the polished brass handle of the door and then it came to him. The dream from last night. No, not from last night. From another time. From my last life. He glanced back at the tapestry; the hair on his neck pushed out to warn him. Nothing, it was normal. The gold emblazoned bear on the thick purple fabric stared back uncaring.  He shook his head like he was trying to free it from a spider’s web. 
The dream was strange like all dreams. His mother had been there. She sat in a rocker and looked beautifully young. So beautiful that in his dream he had yearned for her in ways that a child should never yearn for their mother. She was knitting something. A blanket or a cloak perhaps. Blood streamed down the knitting needles with each wave of her hand. It pooled at her feet and seemed to grow like a living thing. It edged closer and closer to his feet. He couldn’t move though. It was as if chains bound him to the floor. He both wanted to run from the blood and run to his mother at the same time. She looked at him with a cold lust. He remembered reaching out to her; his arm seemed to stretch farther than was possible. Then the blood arrived at his feet. It climbed its way up his naked body and into every orifice. It was warm and sticky and it choked him and clouded his eyes. He felt more alive than he ever had. He turned the knob of the door and the dream returned to the darkest places of existence from which all dreams come.
By the time he had made his way down the steep stairs his thoughts were back in reality. It was then that he realized he had completely forgotten to get dressed. His shameful thoughts conjured by his dream’s lust for his mother were replaced by the very real embarrassment of being naked in the foyer. Luckily none of the maids were around and he scuttled back up the stairs and through his chamber door. By the time he had put his pants on someone had come knocking. 
“Master Cregan , Lady Celeine was looking for you this morning.” A soft voice whispered from the other side of the door.
“Uh, tell her, I’m-- I’m out,” said Cregan . He slipped on a blue shirt.
“Sir, she already left.”
Cregan  stared blankly at the door. “Oh.”
“Sir, it’s midday.”
“...Oh. Where might she be?” He walked to the door and opened it. Shrouded in a brown hooded robe, Teru looked up at Cregan.
“Sir, she did not say.”
“Alright, I’ll, uh, go look for her. Did she say what she wanted?”
“No, sir, she did not.”
“Ok, well, I will...go look for her.” Cregan stepped past Teru and hurried down the stairs. He knows, I’m a motherfucker, goddamn it. Everyone knows, the whole house knows I want to fuck my mother.
He slipped out the back door into the garden through the laundry room. He grabbed his dirty boots and crouched beneath the windows as he left the manor. On the street, the sun was bright, making him put his hand up to cover his face, not too unlike what he would do if he saw his mother getting out of the shower--- GODDAMN IT.
Quit thinking about it. It was a dream. Just a dream. They’re not even real.
“Feeling lazy today, are we Cregan?” Said a bourgeois pedestrian who stopped and looked him up and down.
“Feeling cocky today, are we Lucian?” Said Cregan , staring at Lucian.
“I meant nothing by it, sir, I just--”
“It’s Master Cregan. Keep walking, Lucian.” Lucian nodded and walked by. “And don’t look back.” Cregan  pressed on through the crowds. Strange a lowlife like him would feel the audaciousness to talk down to me. He’ll get it, he’ll get something.
Cregan  turned up another street, lined with beautiful manors, gates guarding gardens from the sidewalk which ended to a massive gate where the true royalty lived. The richest of the rich. And for whatever reason, one of their residences wanted an audience with Cregan . A man who sat on the threshold of breaking through to the true top tier, or just being regular importance. Status never really mattered to Cregan - honestly, he didn’t give a shit about it. He just saw it as a tool to get pussy. Something he would never admit to anyone, not even himself.
At the gate, the guard looked him up and down. “What in Turian do you want?”
“Lady Celeine demands my presence.” Cregan stood proud, a little too proud, making him enjoy the irony, in his peasant garb.
The guard snapped to attention. “Master Cregan, I’m sorry, your dress, it’s just...odd.”
Cregan entered the community and went to Lady Celeine’s estate. Her maid escorted him upstairs to her room where she laid in bed looking out on her forest.
“Cregan,” she said, still staring out the window. “Let’s talk of potions.” 
From his viewpoint in the doorway the sun created a beautiful silhouette of Lady Rhea Celeine’s figure. She wore a simple gown with no frills and embroidered with silver lace that somehow stood out from the pure white fabric. It was fitted to her body to allow just enough of someone’s imagination to get the better of them. He was not thinking of potions, social standing, or even about his mother. 
“Cregan?” Her voice was harsher now but still not cold. She crooned her neck over her shoulder to look at him.  He felt like he had been caught staring at her. Blood gushed in his cheeks, and the thought of this made him pissed. 
“Please, Lady Celeine, we have discussed this; call me Vincent.”
Celeine gracefully spun around and placed her feet on the ground. Her eyes looked at him inquisitively and the corners of her small melon curved lips seemed to strain, hiding a grin. 
“Or even Vince will suffice...” He caught the hidden grin, and his heart fluttered with excitement. She’s mine, he thought. 
“You will call me Lady Celeine and I will call you Cregan and it will remain this way if you ever want me to one day call you Lord Cregan.” She stood up with less grace and her face had become stern. 
For a moment He was reminded of his dream. “Forgive me my Lady I never meant to vex you.” He put his hands behind his back but focused his eyes on Celeine's. 
She flashed a flat smile. “No of course not Cregan. Your intentions are always pure.” 
He smirked because her voice hid no sarcasm. 
“Potions?” Celeine said, interrupting his smile.
“Yes, potions my lady… I need an ingredient that--that can’t be found in the market.”
“Perhaps my servants could fetch it for you Master Cregan.” She stepped closer. 
Master Cregan? Great. Next she’ll be using titles; Master Tincturist Cregan please make me a potion to forget that one night we almost fucked. “No, They'll be unable to find it. It’s something not—uh well let’s just say that the Magistrate wouldn’t be too happy if he found this item on your servants.” 
Celeine’s gaze went to the floor. “You told me this was a perfectly safe tincture.”
“But it is my lady! It’s just... you know how strict the rules have become since the treaty.” 
The smile returned to her face and she looked back into his eyes. “How long will it take?”
“A month. Two at most.” He knew this wouldn’t please her. 
“You have one month.” She turned and walked to the huge window overlooking the forest. 
He spun to leave.
“Oh and Cregan...”
“Yes my lady?” Neither of them bothered to face each other.
“Don’t ever wear something so ridiculous to come see me again.”
“Yes Lady Governess Celeine.” He said the words with malice not giving two shits for the repercussions. He shuffled out of the estate, causing mud to flake off in his path.
He sped home and grabbed Teru by the shoulders. “Teru,” Cregan whispered, “tell anyone who asks for me that I am out sick for the night.”
Teru nodded.
“If the other servants ask, I am sick, I must not be disturbed. Even if they say they saw me leave. You know none of it.”
Cregan stepped back outside and walked quickly down the hills into the slums of the city. Earlier his outfit sounded out like a siren; now, it was but a small whisper. He pushed by people, dead set on his destination. He got to the house; it was a small hut, dwarfed by towering wooden villas, riddled with lewd drawings and profanities.
He knocked.
Instantly, “Password.”
Shit. “It’s Cregan.”
“Oh!” The door opened. “Come in!” A short man grabbed his wrist and brought him inside. Seated at the back of a hut a man shrouded in robes, hooded and staring downward. Cregan sat in front of him.
“Hello, Vince,” said the robed man. His voice was low and soft, a murmur to a lazy listener.
“Hey,” Cregan said.
“What brings you here? Down to the slums? Oh, Lord Cregan , please, tell me, why am I so blessed by your presence?”
“Stop, we’re not getting into this now.”
“No other time than now. But, I’ll humor you. What do you want?”
“Flay root. Two pounds.”
“When?”
“Tomorrow night.” 
The man looked up. His eyes were completely white. “You’re still a fool. Just richer.” 
Cregan shrugged.
“Be careful, Vince, we here will be honest when we want to kill you. Royalty will never let you know.”
“Oh, fuck off it. Don’t start with that. The slums are more than capable of any evil that royalty can ever dream of. You know this. We both know this. We’ve been a part of it.”
The short man came to Cregan , “Tea, sir?”
Cregan pushed him away. “Since when do you employ servants?”
“He found me.”
“Oh?”
“Poor thing, really. But do humor me. What does your customer want with the fray root?”
“A potion.”
“For?”
“Lucidity.”
The man stared into Cregan . Cregan stared back, and for a brief moment, he swore a little color came to his eyes. It made him uneasy, like somehow the blind man could see his soul. 
The hut was silent except for the tottering clank of a copper kettle. The water inside seemed to match the feeling of the small hovel. It increased its roll like a hell pit eager for the flesh of a damned man hanging at the precipice of doom. The servant moved to the wooden stove to relieve the kettle of it’s fiery torture. Pure silence came as the water settled and only then did the blind man clear his throat. 
“Vincent... you know I can’t help you with this. If you wished to damn this city, yourself, and that noble priss; then you should have lied and told me the root was for a charm potion.” 
He slumped in his chair. “I have more honor left than you thought,” Cregan said. “How could I not tell you what it’s for?”
“You’ve no honor at all! Perhaps I was wrong to think you ever did… You know what that potion could do to her. What it did to me. All this for some damn title and more worthless money? 
“No! I won’t help you. I won’t help you ever again. You’re sick just like the rest of them fuckin’ nobility. May the Esther curse you and never lend its grace. Now get out of my house before Dorian slits your throat.” 
Cregan looked over to the small man apparently named Dorian. He had a chipped cup in one hand and a six inch curved blade in the other. Fast little prick isn’t he. He pushed himself away from the table and stood up. 
“Forgive me old friend.” Cregan said.
“Friend I call you no more.” The man returned his glassy stare to the floor and his face looked defeated yet calm. It was a face Cregan had never seen on his old teacher. He said nothing more and took his leave from the dwelling.
As Cregan walked through the slums back to his manor the night seemed to paw at his psyche like a cat playing with his heart on a string. Reap was over and the nights of winter would soon fall on this land. The small vendors and corner stores had packed up for the night and only a few seedy looking people roamed the mostly broken cobble roads. He took a long route around the walls of the city. Here there was only a few farm houses and then the great Western Tym Forest; The dark skeleton branches danced in the autumn air calling to him like a bride on binding night. Maybe Ma’lo was right. What am I doing with my life, He thought. I'm already well respected and good at what I do. 
The path had turned to dirt and the lights of the farm houses in the distance dimmed and some even went black. He could hear singing, coming from the tavern somewhere just behind the tall curtain wall. He only spoke once about lucidity. How was I supposed to know it was such a big deal to him. He knew the dangers of staying lucid too long, but a simple potion that wouldn't last more than a few days couldn’t be that harmful. Cregan approached the south gate and was shivering slightly from the crisp evening. No, he thought as he strutted down the hill. I’m not afraid.
He knocked the door open. Dorian yelped as Cregan grabbed him by throat and threw him outside, shutting the door behind him. Dorian pounded on the door.
“Back so soon?” said Ma’lo.
“You’re not turning me down because of your new sense of morality,” said Cregan . “Tell me everything.”
“Tell you what?”
“Who do you work for now? You clearly aren’t a kingpin.”
“Sit.”
It wasn’t instinct, but it surely wasn’t something far off from it, that made him sit down.
“I’m still stunted by your manors, Vince. Three years, we see each other now, and you have no care for how I’ve been.” Cregan tried to interrupt, but Ma’lo talked on. “Now, I’m not going to lie to you and feign offense. I don’t care. It’s your change that’s impressive. But, I won’t get into that. You are a fool on the path you’re going. A protege gone wild, a blind bull in rage. Tell me, before I help you, what do you want? What do you desire?”
Cregan’s mouth ran dry, “I..don’t know.”
Ma’lo raised his eyebrows. “You don’t know? Your cup is full? You crave nothing? You have it all? Or is it that you are empty? I think that’s it. You have no direction. Your walk says that. Your mission here, your walk through the door, so full of determination, but no, not for you, for another. A woman?”
Cregan stared at the floor.
“Fool! You know the nature of them as well as I!”
“This one’s dif--”
“Different?! Stop.” Ma’lo sighed. “I’m disappointed in your path. I trained you better. You would’ve called me on immorality immediately before. But instead you took a cute walk. That’s what brings you clarity? I’ve seen you murder with less heart. You are too involved now. And a woman? A woman of all things is changing this?”
“There’s more to it than that.”
“What? What is it, Vinny?”
“It’s not love, I’ll tell you that.”
“Status?”
“No. She wants to bring the cycle back. Take away the transitory phase when we sleep. She wants to evaporate our death cycle.”
“You fool, I TRIED THAT, and look what happened.”
The rattling at the door stopped. Dorian had either given up or decided to find something to pry the door off it’s hinges. Cregan leaned forward resting his elbows on his knees. “Fool! That's your damn response to everything. When I was an apprentice it was fool this fool that. When I left you for the university I was a fool. When I came back and was your equal, still a fool. I gained status, went legal, and made a damn life for myself and I’m still a fool?!” 
Ma’lo leaned into the light of three flickering candles on the table between them. “You’re a fool ‘cause you still seek my help, and I’m the biggest fool of all.”
“Just be plain with me Ma’lo,” Cregan said. “You told me what happened because of your lucidity, but you never told me the how or the why.”
“I’ll tell you, but first go let Dorian in; The poor bastard is guna get sick out there.” He tried to judge his face but the old man’s cataracts hid more than just his vision. Ma’lo nodded and flicked his wrist in the direction of the door. 
“Fine…” Cregan rose and went outside. 
Dorian was sitting on the step and from behind Cregan thought he looked like a child. He stood and faced Cregan . His ears were bright red and his nose matched; Snot was running down his left nostril. Fast on his feet but not the quickest in the head. Cregan thought. Dorian gave him a good natured grin in response and then pushed past him into the hut. 
Cregan looked out at the city. Tiny smoke trails peeked over the walls and silhouettes moved methodically over the parapet. The city was slumbering, Deep in its heart Lady Celeine was dreaming. Maybe she dreams of me tonight. He let out a sigh and the breath blurred with the smoke in the distance. “Am I just doing this to impress her?”  He said to the gloom. 
The night replied with a cold wind that bit at his eyes and brought tears. He ducked back under the low doorway and closed it behind him. 
Dorian was kneeling by the stove and stoking it with scraps of wood. Cregan returned to his chair and settled in. “Ok… Let’s hear of when Ma’lo wasn’t an old bastard.” 
Ma’lo chuckled. “This is how we’ll do this, Like the palavers of old. I’ll tell you a story you wanna hear and then you'll tell me a story I wanna hear.”
“Just get on with it.”
He seemed unfazed by his impatience. “It, like all stories ending in disaster, started with a woman--well, more of a girl; I was even younger than you are now. This is the story of my youth before I was distilled into the mighty man you see before you.”
Cregan rolled his eyes.

2
---
Ma’lo sat beside a window; rain slid down the thick hand blown panes. He stared out into a field of daisies and lilacs, still bright and full of color despite the grey skies. His eyes were the same hue as the lilacs and brimming with an equal amount of intelligence and curiosity. 
A small snake slid around the base of the flowers causing the tops to fidget and sway ever so slightly, as if they had a mind of their own, aware of the danger that touched them.
So strange, he thought. Strange. A word that matches its object. She was indeed. Strange. Horribly odd. Perplexing. Magnifying. This will be my first challenge. Everything before has come down to this moment, this is my first test.
A man came from the hallway and sat in a chair in front of him.
“Do you think you can help her?” The man asked.
Ma’lo closed his eyes and pinched the bridge of his nose. “I want to say yes. I have the confidence in myself to do it. But this is odd, Lord Dunden.”
The man nodded. “I know.”
“What do you think it’s from?”
“It has to be those ruins. She played in them when she was younger.”
“Wouldn’t the onset be sooner? That can’t be all. More kids would have it.”
“I have no idea. Honestly. Our scryers and alchemists are of no use. It worries me if it’s contagious, or if others are at risk just by going into nature.”
“Your worries aren’t founded yet. We have no idea how she could’ve got it, or become it, depending on what ever ‘it’ is.”
Another man in white robes ran down the hallway and into their room. “She’s awake, she’s thriving.”
Ma’lo and Dunden stood up and followed him back down the hallway. The hallway was lined with empty cells, lit by small candles. They took a turn and at the end of the hallway a locked door stood patient, enduring the wails on the other side.
“That’s her?” Asked Ma’lo.
Dunden nodded.
The man opened the door and the wailing became louder and the man stepped back allowing Dunden and Ma’lo to step inside. Metal bars divided half of the room, and on the other side a woman floated in the air screaming. Her hair moved on it’s own as if it were underwater; blood flowed from her closed eyes, dripping off her chin and onto her brown smock; no break or waiver in her scream, just a steady sustained pitch.
Dunden approached the bars and stared at her, his expression blank. He crossed his arms.
“I see why you called for me,” said Ma’lo.
“Yes,” said Dunden. “This is work for a hermit like you. Do you have any clue what this is?”
“I do, sire. It’s possession. A rare and ancient, long forgotten, tactic of demon’s.”
Dunden nodded. “What’s this mean?”
“Something is slipping through into our realm that isn’t supposed to. It isn’t contagious. And I doubt the ruins played any part. But I will tell you, she will not be the only one.”
“You can’t seriously believe him Lord Dunden?!” said the man who opened the door. Ma’lo couldn’t hear him over the wail of the girl. He stepped forward and reached his hand through the bars pointing at her. “I DEMAND YOU TO LEAVE THAT BODY!” Ma’lo’s voice seemed to carry an enchantment that boomed and echoed off the walls.
The girl stopped screaming and in a split second her head twisted and faced them. “You will all bleed, and from the blood the Esther will return to balance with us as its master!” The voice was not a young woman’s but a vile cacophony of hissing death. Dunden and the other man had retreated back to the door, their eyes wide in disbelief.
“GO NOW! MY POWER IS GREAT AND I TELL YOU TO LEAVE!”
“No hermit, your magic is as weak as this world’s and your will weaker. Years from now we will creep into your dreams and slit your throat while you sleep. Then You will be with us on our side forever and we will remind you everyday of your sins.”
“FOR THE THIRD TIME I REVOKE YOU! YOU HAVE NO POWER HERE. NOW BE GONE!”
The girls face twisted into pain, her hair fell back towards the ground and then a moment later her body followed. Ma’lo was already moving before she hit the floor. He waved his hand in front of the locked iron door; the tumblers clicked into place and the door swung open without assistance. He was kneeling next to the girl just after she made contact with the stone. Lord Dunden had placed both his hands on top of his head and his mouth was open in disbelief. How can a man move that fast?!
The other man ran out of the room. Ma’lo took a vial from the pouch tied to his belt. He held the girl's head up and poured a green opaque liquid from the bottle into her mouth.
“Wha-- what did you--”
“I commanded the demon out of her body. Did you fall asleep or something.” Ma’lo sounded irritated like what he had done was a common thing someone might do as a parlor trick.
“I never knew hermits commanded demons?! I--I didn’t even know demons were real…”
“Pick your damn mouth off the ground! She needs to have her bones set and a stronger tincture than the one I gave her. Get in here and help me move her!”
“B-Bones set?”
“YES! Her left leg and arm shattered from the fall; I wasn't quick enough.”
“Quick enough? I could barely see you move it was so fast!”
The man from before returned holding a crossbow. He ran up to the bars and aimed the weapon at Ma’lo.
“Marcus! What the hell are you doing?” Dunden yelled.
Marcus peered over his shoulder but kept the weapon trained on Ma’lo. “This man is a charlatan. He probably gave this woman a potion without her knowing it and then pretended to cure her so he could get money or status from you Lord Dunden.”
“That’s ridiculous!” Ma’lo replied. “I did no such thing, and I didn’t cure her. Possession is easy to dispel. You need no tonics or spagyrics, just belief that it can be done.”
“Then you saved her?” Dunden said.
“That’s not the point. Despite what the stories say, A demon can only possess someone through physical contact… There’s a demon in this city; He knows our faces, and we took his thrall."
And Marcus, mark my words, if you fire that crossbow I will undo to you tenfold. Put it down.” Ma’lo stood, his arms raised to his sides, beckoning Marcus.
Marcus trembled and stumbled back, beads of sweat forming on his bald forehead. He set it down and slumped against the wall and began to sob into his hands.
“Lord, we must move her, quick.” Ma’lo bent low and lifted her torso up, slipping his arms behind her armpits and locking his hands together while Dunden lifted her legs.
“Be careful with her left one, sire.”
They moved out of the room past the sobbing Marcus and made their way down the hallways and up stairs and into an infirmary where they set her down gently onto a table.
Ma’lo took a seat beside her as Dunden left and came back, talking to some healers and doctors about the condition of her leg. They made motions concerned of Ma’lo’s unkempt and gross appearance, which Dunden commanded them to tolerate, stating that he was necessary to be present during the healing.
 The doctor began setting the bone back into place. Ma’lo watched with interest, noticing the doctor never blinking, staying wholly focus on even the tiniest of movements, completely enveloped in his art. The other doctor stood by quietly, occasionally looking over the first one’s shoulder and stepping back saying nothing, a sure sign of approval.
The first doctor removed his hands,  and the second doctor stepped in, setting about to stitch up her leg.
Ma’lo leaned forward and asked the first doctor, “how is she not experiencing pain?”
The doctor looked slightly confused.
“I thought you gave her something to numb it.”
“No… I didn’t.”
The doctor shrugged, “Maybe she is in too much shock to feel it?” He stepped away and walked up the corridor, soon followed by the second doctor, then, finally, the two assistants. Ma’lo looked through a small window at the foot of the bed; night was approaching and it was still raining. I should get as far away from this city as I can! Almost as if Dunden read Ma’lo’s mind he closed the curtain to the window.
“Master Ma’lo, what do we do next?”
Dunden pulled a chair from the foot of the bed closer to Ma’lo and sat down. The sound of the scraping chair seemed to stir the young woman. She moaned slightly and rolled over. Dunden sighed as he sat down. “I’ll do whatever is necessary to keep my city safe. The war is coming to an end soon and I have soldiers and their families to take care of, many of them sick and injured.”
“We will figure it out.”
Ma’lo leaned over the bed and grabbed the girl's wrist. Her pulse was strong but irregular. He lifted her left and then right eyelids using his other hand.
“Anything to be concerned with?” Dunden said.
Ma’lo stared into the girl’s right eye. The pupil was bright green with a hazel almost gold ring around it. He released her eyelid.
Her raven hair flowed over the edges of the bed and almost touched the floor. She was maybe seventeen or eighteen. Her skin was still pale from the trauma but color had started to drip back into her thin lips and just below her pronounced cheek bones.
“Master Ma’lo?” 
Ma’lo released her wrist but kept his hand over it. He looked up to Dunden like he had just been woken after falling asleep reading a tome back in his forest cottage.
“I’m sorry what did you say lord?”
“I said, is there anything to be concerned with?”
Ma’lo fidgeted and moved his hand back to his lap. “I'm not concerned about her anymore. I’m concerned about us.” His eyes went back to the girl's face.
Dunden laughed nervously. “Maybe this young lady will let you court her when she wakes up Master Ma’lo. If you took a bath that is.” The joke was empty and only the torches on the walls seemed to laugh.
Ma’lo continued to stare at her “What’s her name?”
“Tara…  Tara Almswood I believe. Just a peasant's daughter. Beautiful though isn’t she?”
Ma’lo bit his lip. “Pray”
“Beg your pardon Ma’lo?”
“You asked me what we do next… We pray.”
“What? Are you joking?”
“No, I’m very serious, actually. We have to purge what was inside us. Marcus might be ok, he cried.”
“I don’t understand.”
“I’ll explain.”
“No, I don’t understand, are we just going to beg the Gods to remove the demon’s print from us?”
“Absolutely not. That’s beggar’s prayer, for the weary and weak.” Ma’lo got onto his knees. “Now, do as I do.”
Dunden stood from the chair and lowered himself onto his knees.
“Close your eyes. Hands joined together, pressed on your chest. Let go of thought. Feel your heartbeat.”
Dunden did so. A soft glow began to radiate and grow with each heart throb. Slowly it moved up his neck, where it settled into an orb. The orb remained as the glow trickled back down to his heart, creating another, and up from his throat and into his head. A veil lifted, the clouds that stormed in his mind which he never realized, became apparent, and blown away by the...light. Yes. Light. That was it. A light that had sat in him since he could remember, but left it neglected, and placed far in the dark.
He opened his eyes and stared at the floor for a few minutes.
“It worked, I can see it,” said Ma’lo, sitting across from him.
“What was that?”
“It was your soul, Lord.”
“My what?”
“Your soul. You’ve hidden it away, pushed it down deep into your heart, allowing thought to take over the mind. You feel it don’t you? The float?”
Dunden nodded. His breath was light and he felt like clouds were moving through him.
“Demon’s can’t occupy a man whose soul is awake.”
“This must be taught! Immediately!”
“Try as you might, but it won’t work. No. The people will see this as archaic, silly, even.”
“What do you mean?”
“This isn’t for everyone. I doubt this lady will learn this.” Ma’lo stood. “Sire, I think I will take my leave to the quarters. I’m exhausted.”
Dunden grabbed Ma’lo’s forearm and looked up at him.
“So are we safe?”
“No one is safe. When has the world ever been safe?”
Dunden released his arm. “I mean from the creature!?”
“I know what you meant. Demon’s are careful and they don’t wage wars like we do. They seep into politics, social structure, and religion. They fight the long war. Don’t mistake me, they aren’t afraid to spill blood on their own hands--hands that could rip this house apart before daybreak--but they enjoy nothing more than to dip another’s hands in the blood of their friends.
“For now it is best that we rest. It has been a long day and tomorrow I will answer any questions you may have. Perhaps Almswood will be awake then too, and we can ask her the nature of the beast.” 
Dunden’s eyes pleaded with him. I will never be able to sleep again after today.
Ma’lo bowed his head slightly and then left the room.
The next morning the rain had stopped but the sky remained like steel. Winds beset the large estate and its gardens like a boat lost at sea. Inside the thick walls of the complex it was quiet. The servant’s had finished their morning chores, breakfast had been eaten, and Lord Dunden had assembled his most trusted advisors and guards in the dining area. Dunden stood at the head of the table his chair had been moved to his right where Ma’lo sat scratching an unkempt patchy beard that looked like a rag of black wool; something a scullery maid might use to clean a dish found behind a cupboard.
“My friends,” Dunden said, addressing the scholars, alchemists, tacticians, and even warriors. “This household, and by extension the township of Garlo, has a heavy responsibility to carry. I have gathered you here to talk of beasts... not the beasts that roam the forests and slaughter cattle, but the beasts that stalk our cities and prey on all of Tiberoak.”
The guards standing near the doors whispered to each other, everyone else sitting at the table used their eyes to do the gossiping.
“Demons have returned to this world. Though many will call them simple fables and legends from when the world was dim and man uneducated, I can attest that they are real, and one dwells within the walls of Garlo. It preyed on our own, a young girl named Tara Almswood, who lays broken and weak in the room just above our heads.”
The eyes collectively looked to the ceiling as if it were made of glass and then back to Dunden. 
“You all know Chancellor Vhelm will be here within five months to officially sanction our city as a safe haven for all soldiers of the war. She will bring provisions and opportunities that will allow Garlo to flourish. Unfortunately this growth will also allow the beast to expand as well.”
“We don’t know how deep its roots are already, but we do have a powerful weapon and ally,” Dunden scooted over to his left and gestured to Ma’lo
“This is Master Ma’lo. He has many talents; one of these is an extensive knowledge of Demonology. You may see him perform acts that could be considered unbelievable, but from this moment on I appoint him my ward and second in charge. You will treat him with the same respect you give me and will address him as Lord Ma’lo from this day forward.” Dunden sat down allowing Ma’lo to take the floor.
Ma’lo was still reeling from what Dunden had said. Yep, should have ran as soon as I saw the girl floating in the air.
“Hello,” said Ma’lo. He cleared his throat. “Hello. I am, uh...Lord Ma’lo.”
A man in the front row raised his hand. 
“Yes, sir, you there, what is it?”
The man stood--he was a tall, skinny frame shrouded in a massive cloak like a coat on a stand--and bowed. “Lord Ma’lo, sir, I am Gentry Sallow, an alchemist here, may I ask your full name?”
“Yes, actually, yes, it is Malleussentinsforthwalloway Locktion. Ma’lo is preferable.”
Sallow bowed and sat down.
Ma’lo sighed. “Now, my good people of Garlo, you are the leaders and protectors of this kingdom. With last night's events, it’s clear that we have something---”
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
“Wait a second,” said Cregan breaking Ma’lo’s story.
“What?”
“Your name is Matthew Lock.”
“Shut up.”
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
“It’s clear that we have something graver than any of us would imagine. I am not a fan of public speaking, so I will make this quick. Demons are dangerous. Their reputation more than precedes them. They have one flaw, which is unfortunately not a tool we can leverage against them, but I will get to that in a minute. Right now, it is defence which needs our attention. Guard your souls. I will get with this Sallow fellow and his fellow alchemists to concoct a protective potion for everyone present. The leaders come first. Next, the warriors, then the peasants. When it comes to demons, they are limited by the body they posses. Demons on their own are an abstract figure, the most they can do is blow a little wind in your face, no harm. But in a body, peculiar things happen. If they inhabit the form of a stupid person, the stupid person will indeed remain stupid, so what do they aim for? Geniuses. Positions of power. I imagine this first demon went after Almswood on accident, excitement got the best of him. With this flaw comes another catch: the demons cannot leave the body unless the body is killed, or the demon is engaged on a metaphysical level, which, as far as I know, I’m the only one that can do that. If guards encounter a possessed individual, they must not kill them, lest they want to become possessed themselves.
“Now, a demon with patience will go after one of us. We’re what they crave. They have no motive outside of destruction. I will do my best to protect each and everyone of you. If you want a history on the demons, I will provide one for you, but I have exhausted myself. In two hours time, my good Sallow, bring your team to my room, and we will get started immediately.”
Ma’lo bowed and walked out of the room. He sighed once he was in the hallway and the large doors to the dining room were shut tightly behind him. It was then when he felt the presence. He turned quickly to his right, his hand moving to the small dagger at his side. She stood leaning against an ornamental pedestal that held up a green vase. The color of the vase paled in comparison to her eyes that somehow seemed to glow despite the shadow cast by her current crutch.
“You scared the hell out of me girl!” Ma’lo said, removing his hand from the dagger's hilt.
She smiled deviously, and in the white smock that was outlined all the way to the ground with her black hair, she looked like a spectre.
 For a second Ma’lo thought the demon had returned to its claim. 
Perhaps even the beast was entranced by her beauty and couldn’t help himself from possessing her.
“Are you the one that called me stupid?” She said.
“Uh what--?”
“In there, I heard someone say the demon went after me on accident because I’m stupid.”
“That… that wasn’t what was said.” Ma’lo looked back at the doors. They were made of oak and came together so close in the middle that Ma’lo doubted he could slip a paper through the gap. Behind the door he could hear slight muffles of voices but it was impossible to discern what was being said. “How did you even hear that?!”
“I used a listening spell. Stop trying to change the subject,” Almswood said.
Ma’lo was now the one that needed to lean on something. He propped himself up against the door with his hand fully extended. “You did what again?”
“You seem rather slow for a hermit, Maybe you're just a man who needs a bath and a razor.” She came around the pillar wincing slightly when too much pressure was put on her left leg. “I’m pretty sure it was you that called me stupid, But i'm also sure it was you who helped me rid my body of the beast last night. So… Maybe I’ll let the stupid remark slide.”
Ma’lo thought for sure he was dreaming. How the hell could she know it was me last night? Did she wake up when Dunden and I were talking?
She squinted like she was trying to see something far away; it made her look like a small child. “Yeah. It was you. I probably could have fought him out of me by myself, but thanks for the help anyways.”
Ma’lo didn’t know what to say and just responded with the first thing that came to his mind. “You’re welcome?”
“Still it’s not nice to call people stupid or judge them before you know them.” She smiled again but it was a flirty gesture instead of the devious one from before.
“My name is Tara Almswood,  daughter of Chester Almswood the best miller in town! But by gods call me TAR-A not tera or I’ll show you how my father taught me to grind human bones with only a rock!” She giggled but it was quickly replaced with a grimace.
Ma’lo gained back some of his senses when he saw the pain on her face.
“I’m Matthew Lock. Everyone calls me Ma’lo.” He went to her side and offered her support. “We should get you to bed; we can talk more there.” 
She giggled again but tried to suppress her body from vibrating. “But Lord Ma’lo we just met and already you wish to bed me.”
He could feel himself blushing and was thankful that his scraggly beard hid most of the color. They hobbled together towards the infirmary.
“As gross as you look, your scent isn’t actually bad, Lord Ma’lo. You smell like the color of your eyes.”
What a peculiar way to describe a smell, Ma’lo thought. “Thank you, I guess. Please stop with the Lord crap though.”
In her room, she immediately crawled into bed and smirked at him.
“Come on, Lord Holy Man,” she wiggled her feet under the covers.
He stood at the threshold of her door looking around her windowless room.
“How do you know magic?” He asked.
“Oh, come on, don’t be boring.”
“Nymphs aren’t my form of entertainment.”
She scowled and looked down at her hands and began picking her nails.
“Tell me, Ms. Almswood, where did you learn magic?”
She sighed putting her hands down, “He taught me.”
“He?”
“The ‘demon,’ though, to me, he called himself JEWL. He was friendly, at first, a small whisper in my mind, but progressively, well, you know.”
Ma’lo nodded. “He’s still there, isn’t he?”
“I don’t think so,” she looked at him, his face partially lit from the side by the hallway’s torches, only one eye caught in the flame’s gaze. “I don’t hear him, and I’ve searched hard for him.”
“As long as you don’t know it, the better. I will have to get with you after the alchemists. You need mental exercise. And as a warning, Ms. Almswood, don’t use magic, it’s a call to him, and your brain the way it is, I would say it’s no different than bleeding next to a shark.”
“So I am stupid?”
“For this town’s sake, I hope you are, then the demon has made a grave mistake.”
She smiled a little. “Sorry I came on the way I did.”
Ma’lo shrugged and walked out of the doorway and down the hall and into his room. He disrobed and sat on his bed.
I won’t rest, I feel it, I can’t. Her knowing magic adds a new dimension. A terrible one. A flutter to my heart, much like being chased. She’ll either have to be killed or made my apprentice. She’s pretty... sure, but that’s not enough, no, never enough for a real man. How much does she know? What does she want from what she knows? What’s her motive? The demon is out of the equation, I can conquer a small beast, I felt his presence, he is little. She’ll have to be kept under close watch, not by normal man. It’d have to be me. Lord knows me. Lord challenges me at every step in my life to be sure. This one will be the most annoying.
He laid on his bed flat on his back and stared at the ceiling. Before he knew it, a knock came to his door.

3
---
“Lord Ma’lo,” said a small boy. “The alchemists have asked me to escort you to the Atrium.”
I’m gonna have to get comfortable with a lot while i'm here; that girl and being called lord will be the first hurdles. Ma’lo stood up and smiled at him. “Let me dress and then lead the way my boy!”
The atrium was less of an atrium and more of a makeshift library. Scrolls lay in heaps, and books in piles; it was paper anarchy, and just looking at it gave Ma’lo a headache. The one redeemable quality of the room was a window that wrapped all the way from the ceiling, down the wall, and to the floor. Even with the dark grey clouds overhead, the room was bathed in natural light and not a torch was to be found. Four young men with nearly identical shabby brown hair and oversized brown cloaks huddled around the largest table. Separate from them was an older man, with long greying hair and a well fitted dark duster. He was so tall that he towered over a shelf of books. A long, thick, double-edged blade hung in his belt, void of a protective scabbard; the sword alone must have been the height of an average man.
Ma’lo recognized two of the brown cloaks. “Marcus, Sallow…” He nodded to each as he said their names.
“L-Lord Ma’lo… I--” Marcus said, looking down.
“Don’t worry about it Marcus. What’s done is done.” You stupid prick... Trying to off me with a poorly made crossbow.
Marcus looked at Ma’lo sheepishly and then nodded.
The older man approached the group from behind. He was nearly two heads taller than all of them, well shaven, and commanded a presence that demanded respect.
“Lord Ma’lo, I’m Meko McGregor. I was absent for this morning's meetings but these men have filled me in” His accent was thick and Ma’lo couldn’t place it exactly, but he imagined the man had to be from Agathe. 
“Good to meet you. I was unaware we were lucky enough to have an Agathe soldier at our disposal”
“Aye... If I have it my way, none of us will be disposed of.”
Ma’lo couldn’t tell if he was trying to be humorous or if he just wasn’t familiar with the phrase.
“We have no need for protection sir and most of what we will be talking about here will probably bore a soldier like yourself.”
“I dabble a lot with alchemy. Just humor me.” Meko smiled.
“Ok then… All of you please sit and I’ll begin.” Ma’lo said.
Everyone returned to their chairs except McGregor. Ma’lo looked at him waiting for the man to sit.
“Don’t mind me. I prefer to stand.”
Ma’lo found a chair. “As you wish.” 
McGregor stood in front of the window’s light; his shadow cast over Ma’lo entirely. This man looks like he could have statues to honor him in every city of Agathe. If he’s not good at his job he could always retire and become a damn castle wall. “Before I get into the weeds, any questions?”
“Yes, if it is so easy to dispel a demon from its host then why did it bring so much attention by causing those fits in the girl?” McGregor said.
“I have read that when a demon is not content with its vessel they will bring attention to themselves so the body might be destroyed by others, thus allowing it to find a new host. I would imagine it is unable to force the host to destroy itself, no matter how strong the demon.”
Sallow raised his hand.
“Please speak freely Master Sallow.”
Sallow lowered his hand. “So by expelling the demon, you helped it?”
“That’s what I thought at first, but I don’t think the demon was trying to leave Miss Almswood. I just spoke with her and it seems that somehow she was fighting it.”
“It’s possible to fight it?” One of the brown beards said. “And her?--Does that make her special?”
Ma’lo nodded, “Yes, it does. It definitely complicates this.”
“How can one fight it? And is it worth it?” Another piped in.
“What does this mean for us? Can we all fight it?”
“Can she be a protector? Can you train her to enhance her skills?”
“Are these potions necessary now?”
“Is she evil? A spy?”
The questions rattled on, all too quickly. Ma’lo sighed and stared at the table, rubbing his beard, meditating on the small strokes to ignore the barrage.
“Silence!” Shouted McGregor. The table turned and looked at him. He looked almost majestic, bathing them in his silhouette. “I believe Ms. Almswood is a natural.” The table except Ma’lo and Sallow was confused at this . “I also believe Master Ma’lo believes the same.”
“A natural? No…” said Sallow.
“Yes, well, let’s carry on,” said Ma’lo, he looked up at all of them. “I will deal with Ms. Almswood. She is now my responsibility, do not concern yourself with her. As far as I know, she is on our side, lest she wouldn’t fight the demon.” He sighed and stood up, at which McGregor smiled. “Now, gentlemen, we are here to discuss a potion. A specific potion. One that will make you immune to demonic possession, but the catch is, it tastes rather nasty. Not as bad as my exe’s cooking, but still rather bad.” 
That was a joke. A joke no one laughed at.
“I’m worried about the quantity of the materials needed to give to the whole population. I know of enough places to find some to supply the whole manor, but the city...that’s worrisome. I have enough for twenty vials in my bags. The positive thing, the really great catch in all of this, it’s a one time drink. The bad catch, it makes one sick for about a month or two. It’s a crippling sickness, seldom deadly, but it is brutal. No healing ailment--no medicine--can cure the symptoms, one will simply have to endure.”
“Have you taken it, lord?” Said a brown beard.
“No, I have not. I’ve no need. Demon’s fear me for I have the lord within me. A dance with me will be a dance of death. I imagine the outcome will always be the same: immediate fever, followed by light delirium, extreme drowsiness, but often too uncomfortable to sleep, significant decrease in appetite. Thankfully, however, the patients will be often thirsty and water does go down smoothly and all things functioning for the bathroom are all good and sound. If it weren’t so, this would be fatal. I need to emphasise, the nightmares. When you dream, they will probably be unyielding. These dreams under this potion, will cause nightmares. Disgusting, consistent, evil, downright terrifying nightmares. Fun stuff, really.
“So, I suspect we will have to take it in waves. First, the Chancellor and his immediate chamber.”
“What about us lord? If we’re making it, shouldn’t we--”
“You have me at your immediate disposal. A demon will find himself a fool to occupy any of you around me.”
McGregor paced to the end of the table. The cloud finally moved away from the sun; Ma’lo squinted as his eyes adjusted. 
“Sire, I am sure you are capable of this task.” McGregor said, facing away from the group. “Lord Dunden’s decision to entitle you is more than proof of this, but I have learned in my years that one should never be indubitable of their own abilities.” He paused giving  a chance for a rebuttal, but Ma’lo was in awe of McGregor’s regal stature and voice. He turned and addressed Ma’lo directly. “My mouth may be plump with pie when I say this lord, but unless my history is erroneous, there is no way you, or anyone here for that matter, could have first hand experience with demon’s, other than last night’s incident.” All heads turned to Ma’lo. “Further, I wonder how you could have so much practice with a tincture shielding against a demon’s tactics. Has there been a demonic presence you southerners have kept from us in the north?”
Ma’lo’s response was ready but he’d allowed McGregor to continue because of his enjoyment in watching this colossus talk. I assume he means to not speak out of place with the ‘My mouth may be plump with pie’ phrase; I don’t see the correlation... though I love the way it sounds.’ Ma’lo chuckled at the thought of this man literally stuffing his face with pie.
“Master McGregor is right in questioning me... I perhaps should have explained more about myself and my experience, but I fear you will not believe me. 
“Hermits dedicate their lives to knowledge. This is something I’m sure you are all aware of. I however, am very young--twenty five to be exact. So how could I have so much knowledge being so young you ask? 
“Through fate, or perhaps dumb luck, I was given the gift to peer into my soul’s memory. I’m sure Master McGregor knows what a soul is,” 
McGregor noded.
“but for the rest of you unfamiliar with the word, it is your life force; your string that tethers you to existence. To stay brief, it is what you are… Not the body you see before you but the eternal force that has experienced not just this life but all your previous lives as well.” Ma’lo could see the doubt on the four men’s faces.
“He speaks truth.” McGregor said.
“This glimpse at my soul’s memories allowed me access to knowledge from a life thousands of years ago. It isn’t all there, just like it’s hard to remember your childhood, it is difficult for me to see all of my soul memory.” Ma’ lo leaned forward over the table using his arms to prop him up. “I received this gift from a foe I fought six years ago.
“The village I called home was completely decimated by a creature called a Moroi; a descendant of when demons roamed freely. You see, in the early stages of possession a person still has control over themselves. It is but a whisper in the background, a gentle coaxing. During this time a human is still a human, and still possess human desires.
“When someone who carries a demon copulates, their offspring holds a piece of that demon inside their soul. These tainted offspring were drawn to one another and after thousands of years of inbreeding, they became known as the Moroi. Undying beings that look like us, but aren’t us. We are cattle to the Moroi.”
Ma’lo could see he was losing his audience, even McGregor.
“These creatures pick off entire cities slowly and make it seem like an epidemic. They have an array of abilities and one is very similar to a demon’s possession. Although a Moroi can’t take direct control of their thrall like a demon can, they can still will them to do things, to be servants. I experienced first hand this enchantment and fell under the control of the head Moroi that destroyed my village. He kept me alive because of my ability to manipulate the esther.”
Now everyone had blank stares.
“His mistake was underestimating my willpower. One night, when he was hunting the last of the villagers, I found myself in his chamber holding an ancient relic. Even now I don’t know what that perfectly round stone was, or where it came from. I had seen the chief Moroi holding it, and I think even he didn’t know its true nature.
“Anyways, the stone spoke to me. It allowed me to touch the memories and with this came the knowledge of the potion. 
“It was brewed in ancient times to prevent demon possessions, and I figured it would also work against the Moroi. I set out to make a vial for myself, when I realized the persuasion of the Moroi had faded within me. I was now someone who had seen behind the curtain… I know my soul and can’t forget it no matter how powerful the enchantment.” Ma’lo held out his hands as if to say, ‘there it is.’
The five men sat motionless as if they themselves had been enthralled by a hellish beast. McGregor was the first to move; he sat down on the edge of the table. Ma’lo thought for sure his weight would bring the desk to the floor, but it held firm. Marcus stared at Ma’lo and the other three looked to McGregor.
“What happened to the Moroi” McGregor said.
“I tried to help nearby cities and townships. I did the best I could to share my knowledge with the empire, but war was still hot in those days, and not many took the time to believe me. Some listened, and allowed me to administer the vaccine. Others laughed in my face. The Moroi are still out there doing what they have done for thousands of years.” 
Marcus looked like he was about to vomit. “So those monsters are still out there?! What if they ally with the demons?”
“That won’t happen,” Ma’lo said, standing. “The Moroi have no love for demons or for us. They love only themselves, and seek neither power nor destruction. They simply survive, and to do that they feed.”
“And the stone? What became of it?” McGregor said.
“It’s in my hut.”
“You would leave such a thing, such a majestic and important artifact, in your house?”
“Under protection, of course.”
“How viscious must you truly be to curse such a stone for your own.”
“No course, sire, but you are doing a great one yourself by steering this council off topic. If you have further inquiry on the stone, see me after, otherwise, keep quiet.”
McGregor smirked.
I like him, thought Ma’lo. Good head, sharp.
“Now, back to the potion. I deeply apologize that I have wrapped your minds with Moroi, but they are irrelevant as of now, but do trust me that the next big war won't be with them, if Ms. Almswood is of any hint to what is coming. We can mitigate that, yes, we hold the fate of the future, us here in this room. The world is counting on us and I’ll be damned if we fail.”
He explained at length the compounds and ingredients of the potion, answering each of their questions and concerns, fostering a kind of hope in them. Ma’lo is not the best speaker, as they could see, and especially demonstrated by McGregor’s instigations, but his knowledge was unmatched. There was no question he did not know the answer to, no concern he could not alleviate. He was the man they needed.
After the meeting McGregor met him outside in the hall.
“Let’s go for a drink,” said McGregor.
“You're no fool, you know I can't do that,” said Ma’lo frowning.
“You’re right, I’m not, but i’d like to talk to you while I drink your share.” He smirked, big and devilish.
Ma’lo sighed, “Alright.”

“Six Catalours and two mishmus,” said McGregor to the bartender.”
“Those aren’t real drinks, or anything, what the fuck?” Replied the bartender, his face in a confused grimace.
“Just get him a beer, please,” said Ma’lo putting a trink on the bartop.
The bartender swiped the coin and poured the beer from a tap into a small wooden cup. He placed it in front of McGregor.
“I want to know how you know so much about my people,” said Ma’lo.
“Your people?” McGregor said in between slurps.
“Hermits.”
“Boy, I thought you could tell.” He burped.
This man, this man is an enigma, a truly odd person, thought Ma’lo.
“Could tell what?”
“I was a hermit too. Just not as...lame as you,” he smirked, and Ma’lo sighed. McGregor took a slow sip from his cup. The tavern was just starting to liven up for the evening. Garlo was a smaller city, but because of the steady flow of soldiers nightlife and entertainment was it’s biggest industries.  
People young, old, and all sorts of shapes, sat, stood, and some even danced. The tavern reeked of booze and sweat but for the patrons the smell had become like an annoying seam in your stocking; eventually you just stop feeling it. A working girl helped one man, who had started the evening too soon, to his feet and up the stairs in the back. She probably intended to lay next to him all night and in the morning receive payment for services unrendered. 
Ma’lo watched all this while a bourgeois lady dressed in feathers sang an upbeat number on the stage. McGregor set his cup down hard enough to bring Ma’lo’s attention back to him. 
“So you don’t want to hear the story?”
“I’ve heard it before, You got bored seeking knowledge and decided to devote your life to the more… well,” Ma’lo pointed to the cup. “the more free flowing pleasures.” McGregor finished the drink in one swig and then sat the cup down gingerly. 
“Yes, that’s it exactly, but you don’t understand the why.” McGregor seemed instantly dry as if the last draw had been a sip from a sobering tonic.
“The why doesn’t matter” Ma’lo replied.
“The why is the only thing that matters.” McGregor looked at Ma’lo for a long time. His steel blue eyes seemed to cut him and then immediately bandage the wound with precision and care. A massive, perfectly aligned grin flashed across McGregor's face; Each tooth looked like a polished tower shield ready to defend against the terrors of any army, supernatural or otherwise. 
“Fine, Lord Ma’lo! I wull keep my stories for anothar time.” McGregor slapped the bar and stood shakily. “Let’s knock for some trouble.” He swung around and stumbled to a nearby table where two young men, obviously soldiers, sat drinking.
Ma’lo watched as McGregor leaned over their table, his knees parallel with the bottom of their tankards. The two men’s faces went from confused curiosity to blistering anger. Then, McGregor pointed to Ma’lo and an instant later he knocked over the two men’s drinks into their laps. He laughed as the cups rattled to the ground, and thick ale cascaded over the two soldiers. The one directly across from McGregor swung his fist. It smashed against the tiny army of white shield bearers in McGregor’s mouth. The soldiers lack of leverage made for a pitiful volley and he surely lacerated his knuckles against the impenetrable jaw. McGregor continued to laugh as he brought his fist down on the table; It splintered into four pieces causing the two soldiers to fall out of their chairs and into the table behind them.
“Stop! Stop!” Screamed the bartender. He went beneath the bartop and rose with a small blunderbuss aimed directly at McGregor.
McGregor raised his hands smirking, “Sorry, sir.” The bar was quiet and the two soldiers stood up and fixed their uniforms. “Round on me!” Shouted McGregor and the bar roared.
Confused, the bartender held his aim.
“Sir, I’m gonna reach down, real slow, into my pocket. I’m going to get a sack of trinks and I’m gonna toss you them.”
The bartender nodded.
Ma’lo had backed away to a farther end of the bar, wanting no involvement.
McGregor took out the sack and tossed it onto the bar top. The tender opened, peeked inside, and looked back up to find McGregor leaving and a frustrated Ma’lo following.
“What was that!? You call yourself a professional?! A master?!” Ma’lo swung around in front of McGregor holding his forefinger pointing straight into his nose, like a mouse challenging a giraffe.
McGregor stopped and burped. “I settled down, didn’t I?”
“You started! That doesn’t matter!”
“I disagree. I realized that I was being foolish, and then I settled down.” He spoke methodically and prideful, he smiled a big dumb smile and his eyes were drooped in a drunken haze.
“Why did you do that?”
“I like to...indulge in the madness of our condition.”
“Our?”
“The human. It’s great, this vessel.” He burped and pushed Ma’lo to the side and started walking. “It’s good I stopped, Ma’momo, I forgot I have work. You should accompany me.”
“Don’t call me that, and what is your work?”
“Yes Mr. Moomoo. Well, my purpose is a psychologist. Lord Dunden requested me because I’m the best so far. He’s having problems with returning soldiers. They’re distraught.”
“Distraught with what?”
“Dreams. We thought it was possession, and we thought your encounter with Ms. Almswood put the nail on the head, but I thought harder, and it can’t be. They’re experiencing something odd.
They think they can’t die.”
“Don’t be silly.”
“What’s so silly about it? Every teenage boy thinks they’re immortal. Just a strange balance of hormones.”
“Is that what you think this is? Hormones?” Ma’lo was struggling to keep McGregor’s pace when McGregor turned suddenly and came to a complete halt. 
Ma’lo nearly crashed right into him. Being that close to the man, Ma’lo realized just how big he was. With his eyes straight forward, he imagined he was looking less than a foot above McGregor’s belly button. He strained his neck to look up. “By the Esther! I think it’s you with unbalanced hormones. Those soldiers back in the bar must have shit their pants.” 
McGregor placed his hands on Ma’lo’s biceps, and with no effort, picked him up and moved him a foot back like a boy playing with a toy soldier. 
“Yes they should have. But there wasn't a trace of fear on their faces.” McGregor said, removing his hands from Ma’lo’s arms. Ma’lo hadn’t realized he had been lifted until McGregor’s hands were back at his sides.
“You mean those soldiers back there are affected by this mystery ailment?”
“Yes, it would seem so.”
“So that’s why you--”
“No, like I said I was enjoying myself.” McGregor pointed down a long alley. “If you wish to return to Lord Dunden’s estate, just follow this alley to the end and then take a left.”
“I thought you wanted my help.”
“I would. Just giving you an out.”
“I think I should stay with you and keep you out of trouble.”
McGregor smiled, and although it was dark, and his face might as well be in the clouds, he looked completely sober. 
“Very good lord. Off to church!” McGregor turned on his toes and continued up a well paved hill. Ma’lo had to jog to catch up to the giant’s head start. 
“The church? I uh--”
“I already gave you the out my lord.”
“What is at the church?” Besides heretics and heathens who worship false gods. Ma’lo thought.
“I was a hermit once too, remember. I know you have no love for the states church.” McGregor slowed his pace slightly and Ma’lo was thankful of that.
“It’s just... what could be there--”
“It’s where some of the soldiers who have the more extreme symptoms have been staying. I’m sure when the Chancellor arrives she will sanctify construction for a proper ward and hospital for the soldiers. For now the church has opened their doors, and are being rather hospitable.”
“Of course they are.” At the top of the hill the road had opened up and led to the main artery of the city.
“Just remember Lord Ma’lo, to them their beliefs are as set in stone as yours; Their god is as real as your Lord.”
“Is that what you believe?”
“It’s what they believe… Try and be civil.”
“Hey, I’m not the one who turned a table into firewood tonight.”
They walked up the road, the houses on the sides becoming taller, rising into the gloom, breaking the horizon that the setting sun dominated. A massive tower stood at the end of the road, miles away. Ma’lo, through his hatred, couldn’t help but admire the structure. Massive feats of engineering and magic went into building these monoliths; a holistic effort of every man from every class, all for one purpose. Ma’lo wished they felt this way about other things, the little things, he dreamed of a time when man was simple enough to be caught in awe at the burning of wood. The singe of lumber snapping and spraying out sparks from its explosion.
Yes, mankind builds beautiful things, but they pale in comparison to the little things in nature.
A few hundred feet out, Ma’lo could see spheres circling the tower at different levels, arcs of brass carved lightning encircled the sphere and tower as it spun.
“Really is marvelous, isn’t it?” Said McGregor.
“Truly,” said Ma’lo, staring upward.
“In the daylight, the glass shines a soft silver, and in the cover of clouds, a majestic blue, purer than any color the sky could ever wish to achieve.”
Ma’lo nodded, doubtingly.
“Tell me, McGregor, what sect is this?”
“Kal. That hasn’t changed.”
“Pity for the Huin. Have they found refuge?”
“No, the raids never stopped, even during the war, it still went on from both sides. As far as I know, they’re fewer than ever, and hiding.”
“Pity...pity,” Ma’lo made a gesture over his chest and blew on his palm.
“Don’t do that inside.”
“I may not interact often, but I am no fool.”
“I just want to be safe. I can take the average soldier no problem, but Kal guards are nothing I want to fight. And they’re annoying. They’re gonna berate you for your stupid beard.”
“And your stench. I live in a small hut in the woods, and I smell better than you. Explain to me how that is?”
McGregor sniffed the air above his arm. 
“Being the size of two men has it’s disadvantages… Difference is I’ll actually take a bath tonight, and you probably haven’t had one in at least a week.”
 They passed under a massive wooden arch with two golden bears guarding on either side of it. One sat in an almost human posture with a look of contemplation on its face. The other stood on hind legs, arms raised, and mouth wide; ready to crush its enemies. Ma’lo pointed to the standing statue.
“Are their mascots related to you?” 
McGregor only responded with a look that made Ma’lo feel like a child.
“Forgive me. I guess I was just indulging in the human condition.”
“Well, don’t do it here!” It was the most serious Ma’lo had seen McGregor’s face, even compared to back in Lord Dunden’s atrium.
Just as they approached the doors to the main building a voice rang out across the courtyard. “You two! The worship hall is closed for the night.”
Ma’lo turned to see a figure wearing rawhide leather and carrying a long pike that stood two times the height of McGregor. It was an intimidating no nonsense kind of weapon. The haft of it carried no markings and the only distinct thing about it besides its length was the broadness of the tip. 
What use could that have in close quarters, Ma’lo wondered.
The guard approached them swiftly and Ma’lo noticed how the pike never wavered or leaned as he walked. 
McGregor began walking to meet the soldier halfway in the courtyard.
“Since when does the hall ever close?!” McGregor said, annoyed.
Ma’lo stayed about six feet behind McGregor.
“Sir unless you have official business, I’m going to have to escort you off church grounds.”
“What’s going on here? Where is Father Raganon?” The annoyance in McGregor’s voice was even more apparent.
The soldier stopped about ten feet away from McGregor and let the end of his pike rest on the ground. Ma’lo assessed that the guard was about his age. Not a speck of hair was on the man’s face or head. The guard’s eyes flicked to Ma’lo and then back to McGregor. 
“Sir, Father Raganon is the one who closed the church.”
“Where is he? I’m here about the soldiers. He knows I am coming.”
“Master Meko McGregor the tincturist?
“Yes” McGregor crossed his arms as if to say ‘who the fuck else?’
“He told me we no longer require your assistance. Sorry for the inconvenience.”
McGregor closed the gap between him and the soldier. Ma’lo was sure McGregor could now reach out and strangle the guard before the man could even think about lowering his pike.
“But Lord Dunden--” McGregor started.
“Has no authority here.” the guard finished.
McGregor breathed deeply, upon exhale he straightened his posture. The guard held his ground, but his face became visibly flustered in the ground’s torchlight.
“Ma’lo,” said McGregor, his voice stern and unwavering, he stared down at the guard.
“Yes, McGregor?” Ma’lo stayed back, but a swell of anxiety took flight in his chest.
“Do I seem a holy man?”
“No, sir, you don’t.”
“Do you know why I gave up the hermetical?”
“I can imagine it’s for things like this.”
“You can’t help the world from your hut. You do only yourself good when you hide away from the evils of the world.”
“And a guard not letting you into a heathen church is evil?”
McGregor chuckled. “He’s the pawn. Tell me guard, why is church closed?”
“Father Raganon has decreed it so for tonight,” said the guard.
“Take me to him.”
“I’m not allowed.”
“Take me to him.”
“Sir, I will not entertain you, I am not allowed.”
Quicker than Ma’lo could see, the pike was flung out of the guard’s hand, and the guard was lifted into the air with one arm by McGregor.
McGregor walked towards the tower and Ma’lo followed quickly behind.
At the door, McGregor opened it, let Ma’lo step inside first and McGregor ducked inside with the guard over his shoulder. The guard had given up kicking and screaming at this point and just dangled like a doll on his shoulder.
The halls were long, their curvature subtle.
“Father Raganon is on this floor in the center. I will take you to him.”
They pressed through, the floor oddly quiet.
At Father Raganon’s door, two guards stood attentively. McGregor dropped the guard he carried to the floor and the guard sighed loud and stood up, walked to a chair, and sat down facing them.
“Let me through,” said McGregor.
The guards looked to each other then back at McGregor and to the now sitting guard and back to McGregor and back to each other and then stepped away from the door.
McGregor opened the door forcefully, “Father Raganon! I want a full explanation---”
Father Raganon sat on his bed naked with a woman’s face unambiguously placed in his lap.
Ma’lo peaked his head in. “It’s a nice room.” He nodded, proud of his own complement. “Very nice. I like the rug. Must be soft on her knees.”
Father Raganon looked older than McGregor. The little hair he had left was white and shaved close to his head. He was a small man who looked like the last physical thing he did was when he was maybe twenty five. At second glance Ma’lo realized the man was probably younger than McGregor. He had just lived poorly, and his body was the canvas an artist threw a temper tantrum on. The two had walked in at almost the exact moment when Father Raganon’s eyes started to roll back, but the intrusion happened soon enough to damn the holy tributary and keep this worshiping woman from receiving the church’s tidings. He threw off the poor girl, who was at most sixteen. She cried out while gathering her undone dress and then hurried to a corner of the room to finish dressing.
“WHO THE FUck let you in?” Raganon’s voice cracked as he yelled. He flailed for bedding to hide his shame. McGregor would allow him no such comfort and he ripped the silk sheet from the priest’s grasp and threw it to a corner of the room. 
“Have you lost your mind McGregor?!” His words lacked any sort of authority and Ma’lo couldn’t see how this pathetic man could lead an entire congregation.
“ME? I’ve lost MY fucking mind? THIS, while your chapel doors are locked and you sit up here getting your divine scepter polished?” McGregor’s face was bright red and the anger in his eyes carried more power than Ma’lo did magic.
“I don’t care how big you are or how big you think you may be, This is unacceptable. Do you know who I am? What I could have done to you?” He tried desperately to hide his engorged prick with his hands.
McGregor looked down at it. “Trust me, I’m bigger.”
Ma’lo couldn’t help himself now and he started to laugh.
“Shut up! Who the hell is this disgusting man? You break into my chambers and bring a fucking hermit to ridicule me?”
“Oh, I’m sorry good father I told him to behave himself. I guess we common folk just lack a certain tack that you holy men have.” McGregor shrugged and walked to the edge of the bed. Raganon shrinked away as he approached.
“I’m serious! It’s in my power to execute both of you!” 
“Listen, I don’t give a damn about your hypocrisies or what you do with your dick! I’m here at Lord Dunden’s request to help the soldiers.”
 Raganon had slipped off the bed and was desperately trying to put his trousers on. 
“As the guards no doubt told you, we no longer require your assistance.”
“The hell you do--”
“The main sect sent someone already. And she’s more qualified than a heathen giant and his scruffy hermit dog. 
“Even if I wanted to - which I don’t - I can’t let you see the men. The orders stand that no one is to see them but her.”
“Her?” McGregor looked at the girl as she finished putting on her clothes. “She’s cute, but what good could she do for the soldiers? They don’t need head, they need more help than that.”
“No, McGregor, I don’t think he means her” said Ma’lo.
The priest sighed and the girl came over to him and leaned her head on his shoulder. He brought his arm around her. “It’s a nun, from the north.”
“What’s her name?” Asked McGregor.
“Shelly McGregor.”
“What?”
The priest nodded. “The order didn’t come from me, it came from King Largo, he requested her personally. I know it sounds odd coming from me in this circumstance, but it’s clear something is going on with these soldiers that he doesn’t want out. And he thinks your cousin can be trusted.
“I’ll help where I can for you, but right now, allowing you entry the night she’s been transferred is simply foolish.” He tried to subtly rub his now sore balls, clammering in protest from their denial to release.
“Why didn’t she tell me?”
“That is a dilemma between the two of you. Now, if you excuse me, I--”
McGregor picked Ma’lo up and put him over his shoulder and walked out of the room.
Ma’lo hardly protested, and was glad to be relieved of walking. He felt pity for the priest, whom he saw love in his eyes when he looked at the girl. Sad thing, not being able to love openly, another flaw in this religion.
But I choose to be alone. Am I a fool too? No, I just know better. To be wrapped up in such matters like ‘romance’ is silly and distracting and nothing more than setting yourself up to be hurt. No one human should have that type of power over another. The heart isn’t meant to be given to anyone, I remain convinced, but still, poor priest, he wants his love.
McGregor took Ma’lo back to Lord Dunden’s estate and laid him in his quarters. Ma’lo felt like a child in comparison to him, and wanted to make a joke to alleviate McGregor’s obvious inner turmoil. 
All he muttered, “Goodnight, McGregor.”
McGregor nodded and properly fell asleep on Ma’lo’s floor.

4
---
Two weeks passed with no news from Father Raganon, and no stirrings of demons. Ma’lo and McGregor prepared a workshop out of Lord Dunden’s wine cellar. The other alchemists left the city to procure as many of the raw ingredients for the potions as they could. Lord Dunden was busy preparing for the Chancellor's visit and the rest of the household went on as normal. Normal, except for Tara Almswood. Most thought her to still be bed ridden, but Ma’lo had caught her many times wandering around the estate, exploring the gardens, and even reading books that she had smuggled out of the atrium. He scolded her every time, except for the times he found her with a book. Besides the ritual of finding and returning her to bed, the two didn’t speak much, and the conversations that did happen mostly went like this:
“When are you going to teach me how to shoot fire from my hands?” She would say.
“Never, fire is dangerous, and you could set all that pretty hair ablaze. Now get back to bed,” he would say.
“You'll have to deal with me at some point.” 
Then Ma’lo would sigh and help her hobble back to her room.
One sunday McGregor got a letter from his cousin. He didn’t discuss with Ma’lo the contents of the letter, only that he would be gone for a week. With the lab complete and the other alchemists still out gathering supplies, Ma’lo was now left alone to finally ‘deal’ with Miss Almswood.
The truth was, that Ma’lo felt weird around her. He understood being physically attracted, she was beautiful, but-- 
No! BUT nothing, He thought. She is beautiful and my senses are just trying to fool me into thinking it’s something more. 
He sat in the garden, a book in his lap and dark moss under him. It was getting late but the sun still lingered; the last days of summer had turned into just a few more, and it was a sign that this winter would be mild. 
The book’s title read ‘Of Things That Were Once Mine’. He had only briefly begun the book when his mind had started to drift to her. There was no way to delay much longer. She would have to be trained. She most certainly had been practicing spell weaving on her own despite his warnings. With training he could at least monitor her, and decide what she would, and more importantly, wouldn't learn. I’ll teach her simple spells, safe spells. And by making her his pupil he could put to rest the appeal. He hoped that attraction to a student would be impossibly frustrating. He closed his eyes and dwelled on the satisfaction of this decision. Then she was there.
“Hey Matthew! Whatcha reading?” She said standing over him. She had settled on calling him Matthew, seemingly at random, and Ma’lo was fine with this because it had ended names such as ‘Lord Scruffy’.
“Hello, Ms. Almswood,” he said, not looking up from his book. “Enjoying time out of your room, I see.”
She smirked and read over his shoulder. “You read the boring stuff.”
“The boring stuff?”
“The stuff that’s all...convoluted, and structured weird, the stuff that harps on the melodrama. That page is three paragraphs about going to the bathroom. That’s so unnecessary.”
“I disagree,” he looked up at her. “It’s the author being able to pull the moment out of infinity and reconstruct every detail about the experience, but there’s more: he makes it entertaining. That’s skill. Don’t get me wrong, though, I do love my mindless epic from time to time, but sometimes this is where I want to be.”
“On the toilet?”
He sighed and set the book down. “How can I help you, Ms. Almswood?”
Her face went straight. “I got a letter for you, from the courier. He was in a rush, so he gave it to me.”
“Why are you taking my things?”
“What?”
“The courier would do no such thing, what did you really say?”
“I’m not lying, Matthew, honestly. He was in a rush.”
“No matter, hand it here.”
She pulled a small folded paper out and handed it to him. He unfolded the paper and read:
Ma’lo,
My cousin entering the city is a problem. I won’t be able to assist you, or see you, for a long time. I’ll send my good friend Rodrick. He isn’t the brightest fellow but he can almost hold a sword as good as me and he is very loyal.

Ma’lo folded it back and stared down at the grass.
“Something wrong?” asked Almswood.
“Yeah, that was a horrible letter.”
“Did something happen?”
“No, it was just stupid. No information. What a fucking asshole.”
Almswood came around and sat on the bench next to him, “I’m sorry about that.”
“Why am I still here?”
“Because I can’t let someone with such potential loose on the world. You might burn away all that pretty hair when you sneeze or something.”
“Does your family miss you?”
“Maybe. My father probably misses my hands in the mill.”
“So I imagine you miss them?”
She nodded her head.
“Well, Miss, To take your mind off it, I believe I need your hand in alchemy as my partner just deserted me to go talk to trees or something.”
“I have no idea how to do alchemy but I will let you teach me if you stop calling me Miss... It’s just Tara.”
Ma’lo stood and handed her the book. “It would be inappropriate for me to call you by your first name.”
She took the book and looked up at him. “Why do you care about being inappropriate? You’re a man who has forsaken the world to live in the woods and hoard knowledge.”
He thought she sounded angry with him but it was different; Ma’lo was confounded not with what she said but how she had said it. 
“There is beauty in learning. Not in the knowledge gained but in the act of pursuing it. I find no shame in dedicating my life to studies, and I don’t hoard my knowledge. I am, after all, here to help.”
She sighed and as she stood up she nearly bumped her forehead on his. Ma’lo backed up, surprised with her sudden ascension. She clutched the book in one arm and rested her other hand on his shoulder. 
“Enjoying beauty is fine for a moment,” She spoke in a serious tone. “but one day you have to ask what’s the point of beauty in the first place.” She dropped her hand from his shoulder; Ma’lo watched it fall gracefully to her side. “You didn’t come here to help me, or anyone for that matter. You came here out of self interest.” She forced a smile and almost curtseyed as she stepped past him. “I’ll put your book back.” 
She was about twenty paces away when Ma’lo finally turned.
“Tara. If you will meet me in the cellar in an hour I would love to share my knowledge with you.”
“She turned her head and flashed him a quick smile as she walked away.”
Ma’lo crossed his arms and watched her as she made her way up the gardens’ stairs and disappeared into the manor. 
I help because I want to help. It was a lie and he knew it, but it was the kind of lie you tell yourself in hopes it will one day be true. Ma’lo growled and then followed after her. “What does she know?”
Ma’lo went over the basics of alchemical theory and even touched on the depths of simple tincturing, showing the basics of separating and then recombining a substance using the seven steps of alchemy. She said very little and remained attentive. At first Ma’lo thought she was simply nodding and pretending to understand things, but towards the end of the day, as they worked right through dinner, he realized that she was incredibly sharp and was memorizing things almost like she had transcribed his words on her hand.
“So when something rots and ferments it becomes... Mercury?”
“Yes” Ma’lo nodded. 
“And this Mercury is the plant's spirit. Not to be confused with its soul, also called ‘Sulfur’. I guess that is why wine and liquor are called spirits?”
“That’s right. Salt, Mercury, and Sulfur the pillars of alchemy. The pillars of everything really, they are just known by different names in different fields.”
Almswood picked up a beaker with a brown strong smelling liquid. She held it up to her face and swished the liquid around in the glass.
“Makes the world seem simple when you break it down like that… This one is methylimidazole”
Ma’lo quickly grabbed her hand, ceasing the gyrations of the vial.
“Yeah… Simple. Do you have an eidetic memory Tara?”
She nodded and then he realized the reason the demon had chosen her.




Campaign picks up about 3 months later